BookingKoala Help Center: Complete Reference Guide
Prepared for: LBK Cleaners (Lubbock, TX) Source: https://help.bookingkoala.com/en Total Articles: 370 across 20 collections

This document contains a complete compilation of every article from the BookingKoala Help Center, organized by collection. It covers every setting, step-by-step process, integration option, feature, limitation, and configuration detail available in the platform.



Table of Contents
Ģ 1. Intro to BookingKoala (11 articles)
Ģ 2. Account (4 articles)
Ģ 3. Notifications (14 articles)
Ģ 4. Integrations (27 articles)
Ģ 5. General (33 articles)
Ģ 6. Design forms and website (46 articles)
Ģ 7. Industries and booking forms (40 articles)
Ģ 8. Booking spots (4 articles)
Ģ 9. Customers (40 articles)
Ģ 10. Providers (35 articles)
Ģ 11. Staff (4 articles)
Ģ 12. Bookings (9 articles)
Ģ 13. Leads (28 articles)
Ģ 14. Checklists (13 articles)
Ģ 15. Marketing (28 articles)
Ģ 16. Hiring (23 articles)
Ģ 17. Reports (1 articles)
Ģ 18. Logs (1 articles)
Ģ 19. Language and translation (6 articles)
Ģ 20. Mobile apps (3 articles)



1. Intro to BookingKoala
Articles in this collection (11):

1 BookingKoala overview
2 New business? How to start.
3 Existing business? How to start.
4 Kirby
5 BookingKoala referral program
6 BookingKoala blog
7 Facebook group
8 Follow us on social media
9 The BookingKoala affiliate program
10 Request feature page
11 Customer Service & Support Resources



BookingKoala overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/bookingkoala-overview

BookingKoala overview
Learn the basics about the BookingKoala platform including options for new and existing business, multiple languages, custom domains, and more.

Last updated on16 Feb, 2026

In this overview, we will go over the following questions:

Ģ What is BookingKoala?
Ģ Who is BookingKoala for?
Ģ What industries can use BookingKoala?
Ģ Can I use BookingKoala outside of the US?
Ģ Can BookingKoala be translated into different languages?
Ģ Can I use my own website?
Ģ Can I use custom domains?
Ģ Where can I access my data from?
Ģ How easy is it to get started?

What is BookingKoala?
BookingKoala is software designed to launch your service business in 60 seconds. You come to BookingKoala, pick a theme, pick your industry, and a website powered by our powerful features will be set up for you in seconds.

Who is BookingKoala for?
New and upcoming entrepreneurs looking to start a service business AND existing service businesses that are looking to use our powerful features to help them grow.

We've put together these setup guides for how to get started if you are a new business or an existing business.

What industries can use BookingKoala?
Please click here to explore all the different types of businesses you can start using BookingKoala. Of course, these are examples, and there are many other businesses you can create. The important part is getting creative and figuring out how to use our software to build out your business idea.

To get help from other entrepreneurs, you can also join our Facebook group.

Can I use BookingKoala outside of the US?
Yes, our software operates worldwide.

Can BookingKoala be translated into different languages?
Yes, all users can translate their site from English to any language currently available via the Google Translate API. Premium subscribers can allow their customers and providers to use their store in multiple languages.

Click here to learn more about language and translation features in Bookingkoala.

Can I use my own website?
Yes, if you don't want to build a website on BookingKoala, you can use your already existing website and embed our forms on your already existing site.

Click here to view our guide on how to embed forms.

Can I use custom domains?
Yes, if you want to get rid of the "Bookingkoala" part of your "abc.bookingkoala.com" domain, we made for you, then you can change that in the settings so that your domain can be "www.abc.com" instead.

Click here to view our guide on how to set up custom domains.

Where can I access my data from?
Your customers, providers, office employees, and you can access your data from anywhere in the world on any device. Your data is securely stored inside a cloud.

How easy is it to get started?
To start a free trial for the Starter Plan, click here.

To start a free trial for the Growing Plan, click here.

To start a free trial for the Premium Plan, click here.

If you have more than 50 total providers, click here to visit our pricing page and click the orange "See Larger Plans" below the three primary subscription types.



New business? How to start.
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/new-business-how-to-start

New business? How to start.
You will learn step by step how to set up BookingKoala for your new business.

Last updated on 16 Feb, 2026

The purpose of this article is to help you understand how to set up your:

Ģ Store options
Ģ Forms and industries
Ģ Smart scheduling
Ģ Notifications
Ģ Providers and teams
Ģ Website and form builder
Ģ Extra features

If you are starting a new business and just subscribed to BookingKoala, welcome!  We recommend that you follow this checklist in order to set up your store.   Go through each option carefully to decide how you would like your business to operate.

1. Set up your preferred settings in the Store Options section.
Please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

There are five sections under Store Options .  Read each section carefully and set them up according to your preferences.

Here are several articles that will help you understand each section.

Ģ General Store Options
Ģ Customer Store Options
Ģ Provider Store Options
Ģ Admin Store Options
Ģ Scheduling Store Options

2. Set up all your forms and industries.
There are five types of booking forms in BookingKoala. Each booking form represents a different way of pricing services.

Pick which booking form is right for your business.

Then, go through your Form Settings to see which kinds of options and features you can set up.

You can click the links in the article above to view detailed setup guides for each form or use the links below for a guide on how to set up each form section.

Ģ Locations
Ģ Frequencies
Ģ Service Categories
Ģ Pricing Parameters (used in Form 1 )
Ģ Pricing Parameters (used in Form 4 )
Ģ Items (used in Form 2 and Form 3 )
Ģ Packages (used in Form 2 )
Ģ Add-Ons (used in Form 2 )
Ģ Add-Ons (used in Form 3 )
Ģ Extras
Ģ Custom Sections

After adding everything, make sure your payment processor is activated if you accept credit/debit card payments and sales tax is activated (if you collect sales tax).

Ģ Set up sales tax
? Setting up taxes with Taxify

3. Set up smart scheduling
You can view this article which will explain in detail our smart scheduling and how to set it up properly.

4. Prepare your notifications.
Make sure that your email notifications are verified and that your SMS notifications are set up .

Then, you can modify your email and SMS notifications to customize them for your business.

Ģ Notifications overview
Ģ Email notifications
Ģ SMS notifications
Ģ System Alerts

For example, make sure all your links are connected to your social media accounts and images are replaced inside your emails.

5. Create and set up your providers/teams
Start with this Provider/Team overview to learn more about providers and teams.

Download the BookingKoala for Providers app and learn more about how providers can use the app to clock in and out of jobs, add job notes, get customer signatures, and more in the Provider app overview .

Later you can start adding in your providers/teams and then setting up their:

Ģ Schedules
Ģ General Settings
Ģ Industry Settings
Ģ Form Settings
Ģ Payments

For a faster onboarding experience, you can use the Import Tool.

6. Our themes or your existing website?
When you sign up for BookingKoala, a website is already generated when your account is created. You can use the BookingKoala Website Builder to customize the appearance of your site and forms.

You can also customize and embed the forms onto an existing, third-party website.

Here are some articles to help you:

Ģ Themes versus forms
Ģ Themes overview and how to customize your site
Ģ Customizing the look of your forms
Ģ How to embed forms on my existing website
Ģ How to preview my website made by BookingKoala

7. Use our extra features.
Here are some extra things that you can do to your store:

12 Send quotes to customers.
13 Activate your Facebook and Google logins
14 Set up "lead"/contact us forms
15 Create coupons for your customers.
16 Set up booking checklists for your providers and customers to review.
17 Learn how to create and send invoices to customers.
18 Add a blog to your site
19 Link your Intuit Quickbooks account to track revenue
20 View the reports section
21 Connect a Zapier account to automate tasks
22 Customize your gift cards - Growing & Premium
23 Set up referral sharing - Growing & Premium
24 Set up the Hiring Module for quicker, easier onboarding and hiring - Growing (some features available) & Premium (all features available)
25 Add multiple industries - Growing & Premium
26 Set up and send out campaigns - Premium
27 Add languages and translations - Premium

We are actively developing our software and are constantly coming out with new features. Be sure to check the Help Center for articles and videos as new features are announced!

Congratulations! Your store is now set up and live.
If you run into issues, here are some articles we put together based on problems others ran into:

Ģ My booking forms are not working. What do I do?
Ģ Why are no dates/times showing up when I try booking?
Ģ Why are my notifications not going out?

P.S. Don't forget about our blog or our Facebook community !



Existing business? How to start.
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/existing-business-how-to-start

Existing business? How to start.
You will learn step by step how to set up BookingKoala for your already existing business.

Last updated on 16 Feb, 2026

The purpose of this article is to help you understand how to set up your:
Ģ Store options
Ģ Forms and industries
Ģ Smart scheduling
Ģ Notifications
Ģ Providers and teams
Ģ Website and form builder
Ģ Extra features

After you are ready to make the switch from your current software to BookingKoala, it is recommended that you follow this checklist in order.

1. Set up your preferred settings in the Store Options section.
Please go to: Settings > General > Store Options

There are five sections under Store Options. Read each section carefully and set them up according to your preferences.

Here are several articles that will help you understand each section.
Ģ General Store Options
Ģ Customer Store Options
Ģ Provider Store Options
Ģ Admin Store Options
Ģ Scheduling Store Options

2. Set up all your forms and industries.
There are five types of booking forms in BookingKoala. Each booking form represents a different way of pricing services.

Pick which booking form is right for your business. View examples of each type of pricing structure to decide which will fit your industry best.

Then, go through your Form Settings to see which kinds of options and features you can set up.

You can also click the links in the article above to view detailed setup guides for each form or use the links below for a guide on how to set up each form section.
Ģ Locations
Ģ Frequencies
Ģ Service Categories
Ģ Pricing Parameters (used in Form 1)
Ģ Pricing Parameters (used in Form 4)
Ģ Items (used in Form 2 and Form 3)
Ģ Packages (used in Form 2)
Ģ Add-Ons (used in Form 2)
Ģ Add-Ons (used in Form 3)
Ģ Extras
Ģ Custom Sections

After adding everything, make sure your payment processor is activated if you accept credit/debit card payments and sales tax is activated (if you collect sales tax).
Ģ Set up sales tax
? Setting up taxes with Taxify

3. Set up smart scheduling.
You can view this article which will explain in detail our smart scheduling and how to set it up properly.

4. Prepare your notifications.
Make sure that your email notifications are verified and that your SMS notifications are set up.

Then, you can modify your email and SMS notifications to customize them for your business.
Ģ Notifications overview
Ģ Email notifications
Ģ SMS notifications
Ģ System Alerts

For example, make sure all your links are connected to your social media accounts and images are replaced inside your emails.

5. Disable all of your notifications for a short period of time.
Once you have notifications set up and verified, you will want to disable all of them to make sure no one gets any notifications when you are creating your customers and/or providers later.

6. Create and set up your providers/teams.
Start with this Provider/Team overview to learn more about providers and teams.

Download the BookingKoala for Providers app and learn more about how providers can use the app to clock in and out of jobs, add job notes, get customer signatures, and more in the Provider app overview.

Later you can start adding in your providers/teams and then setting up their:
Ģ Schedules
Ģ General Settings
Ģ Industry Settings
Ģ Form Settings
Ģ Payments

For a faster onboarding experience, you can use the Import Tool.

7. Import your customers.
Next, you can begin importing your existing customers. This can be done by using the import tool, or by manually creating new profiles.
Ģ Add and invite customers
Ģ Import your customers

You can refer to the Customer overview for a complete guide on how to create and manage customer accounts.

Please note: Customer accounts are generated automatically whenever you create a booking with a new email address (one that is not already in the system). If you have customers with active bookings, you can save time by scheduling their services and saving their profiles in one step.

8. Put in all of your bookings.
Here are some articles that discuss how bookings work, how to send quotes, and how to use the Unassigned Folder feature.
Ģ Bookings overview.
Ģ Send a quote.
Ģ Unassigned folder.

Please note: If you collect sales tax, please make sure you have set it up before bookings are added. Otherwise, when sales tax is activated later on or modified, all active bookings will get a message that sales tax has been modified.

The next time you save the booking, it will add the sales tax to bookings that were made before the sales tax was added or modified.

9. Reactivate your notifications.
Go back and activate any notifications you previously disabled.

For more information about each type of notification, click here.

10. Our themes or your existing website?
When you sign up for BookingKoala, a website is already generated when your account is created. You can use the BookingKoala Website Builder to customize the appearance of your site and forms.

You can also customize and embed the forms onto an existing, third-party website.

Here are some articles to help you:
Ģ Themes versus forms
Ģ Themes overview and how to customize your site
Ģ Customizing the look of your forms
Ģ How to embed forms on my existing website
Ģ How to preview my website made by BookingKoala

11. Use our extra features.
Here are some extra things that you can do to your store:
28 Activate your Facebook and Google logins
29 Set up "lead"/contact us forms
30 Create coupons for your customers.
31 Set up booking checklists for your providers and customers to review.
32 Learn how to create and send invoices to customers.
33 Add a blog to your site
34 Link your Intuit Quickbooks account to track revenue
35 View the reports section
36 Connect a Zapier account to automate tasks
37 Customize your gift cards - Growing & Premium
38 Set up referral sharing - Growing & Premium
39 Set up the Hiring Module for quicker, easier onboarding and hiring - Growing (some features available) & Premium (all features available)
40 Add multiple industries - Growing & Premium
41 Set up and send out campaigns - Premium
42 Add languages and translations - Premium

We are actively developing our software and are constantly coming out with new features. Be sure to check the Help Center for articles and videos as new features are announced!

Congratulations! Your store is now set up and live.
If you run into issues, here are some articles we put together based on problems others ran into:
Ģ My booking forms are not working. What do I do?
Ģ Why are no dates/times showing up when I try booking?
Ģ Why are my notifications not going out?

P.S. Don't forget about our blog or our Facebook community!



Kirby
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/kirby

Kirby
Learn more about our mascot, Kirby the Koala.

Last updated on 13 Jul, 2022

Kirby the Koala
Meet Kirby the Koala, our company mascot. Kirby was born on January 17, 2018, and he is here to help you get all the answers that you need to grow your business. Say hi to Kirby.



BookingKoala referral program
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/bookingkoala-referral-program

BookingKoala referral program
Learn how you can earn credits for referring others to BookingKoala.

Last updated on 18 Mar, 2022

Do you have friends that may be interested in using BookingKoala?

Ģ For every paying " Premium " user, we will give you $ 197 in credits.
Ģ For every paying " Growing " user, we will give you $ 57 in credits.
Ģ For every paying 'Starter' user, we will give you $ 27 in credits.

You can use these credits towards your BookingKoala subscription ONLY.

How does it work?
Inside your account in the top right-hand corner, click on your name and a drop-down menu will appear. Then, click " Earn Rewards ".

From here, you can share your unique link with your friends and family.

For example, if you decide to share a link on Facebook, it will look this:

Whenever a user lands on this blog post, we will track them via their browser cookies for 60 days. If they sign up for BookingKoala within this time frame, the system will automatically register them as a referral under your account. The moment they start paying, you will be rewarded the credits.

Rules:

Ģ You can share links anywhere you'd like.
Ģ The user gets "cookied" for 60 days starting when they click your referral link.
Ģ If someone signs up within 60 days, they will count towards your referral.

? Even if someone signs up within 60 days but doesn't start paying until half a year later, you will still get rewarded.

Do I have to sell the referral?

No, the moment you share your link and someone visits our blog post, we do the rest. Super simple!

Do I get rewarded if someone clicks on the 'Powered By BookingKoala' badge on my site?

If a user clicks on any " Powered By BookingKoala " badge on your site, you will get rewarded if they become a paying client. Whether it is through the badge on your booking form , home page when using our themes, or through a badge sent out via notifications.



BookingKoala blog
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/bookingkoala-blog

BookingKoala blog
Learn what you can find on our blog and how it can help your business.

Last updated on 06 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Locate the BookingKoala Blog

The BookingKoala Blog
The goal of the BookingKoala blog is to provide the best information to our readers and users. We plan on categorizing the blog into sections to help grow any service-type business of your choice. We will also dedicate a section to showcase users' growth stories and occasional BookingKoala news and updates.

Click here (https://www.bookingkoala.com/blog/) to visit our blog.



Facebook group
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/facebook-group

Facebook group
Learn more about our Facebook group.

Last updated on 10 Mar, 2022

Our Facebook group is a community of entrepreneurs who use BookingKoala to grow their service-type businesses.

There are many advantages of being inside the group:

Ģ Help with the growth and management of your business
Ģ Ideas on how to properly set up your BookingKoala store
Ģ Get support from other users who have encountered similar questions
Ģ Discuss service-related questions like how to manage your providers, create policies, and fine-tune the services you provide.

To join our Facebook group, please click here (https://www.facebook.com/groups/bookingkoala) and request to be accepted.



Follow us on social media
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/join-us-on-social-media

Follow us on social media
Follow our social media accounts and groups

Last updated on 13 Jul, 2022

Ģ Click the links to view our social media accounts and groups!

Accounts
Ģ Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/bookingkoala
Ģ Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/c/BookingKoalaLLC/featured
Ģ Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/bookingkoala/
Ģ Twitter: https://twitter.com/bookingkoala

Groups
Ģ Facebook group: https://www.facebook.com/groups/bookingkoala
Ģ Reddit group: https://www.reddit.com/r/BookingKoala/



The BookingKoala affiliate program
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/the-bookingkoala-affiliate-program

The BookingKoala affiliate program
Learn how to earn commissions by referring leads to BookingKoala.

Last updated on 14 Aug, 2025

Our current affiliate offers are as follows:

Ģ Offer 1: BookingKoala software
Ģ Offer 2: SalesHangry software (coming soon)

Offer 1: BookingKoala software (40% + 10% for 24 months)
Earn 40% from every paying customer for up to 24 months plus get 10% from all commissions that your promoters earn. Earn a possible $1,000 and a $20,000 bonus by joining today. Learn more about bonuses and earnings below .

We have an excellent product, and we want everyone to make money with it, so donÆt wait too long!

To start, click here to sign up for the affiliate program. If you plan on using BookingKoala or are already using the platform , the affiliate program is already attached to your BookingKoala account. It can be found by visiting " Earn Rewards ". Under the Earn Rewards page you can track all your referrals and earnings as well as find all your referral links.

Please be sure to have a PayPal account connected to your dashboard. This is how we will send your affiliate payment each month. You can also email us at partners@bookingkoala.com for additional support with setting up your PayPal account.

To learn what is inside your affiliate account and how to use it, watch this video .

How do I share my referral links and earn money? (2 simple ways)

There are two ways you can earn money:

1. One of the ways is to share your personal links wherever you'd like. We even created a special page that you can share, awarding your leads a 30-day free trial of BookingKoala, instead of the regular 14 days. This page will entice them to use your link to sign up which will ensure you get commissions while they get 2 weeks extra as a reward.

A few example of leveraging your Referral links

Ģ You know someone who is looking to start a business, and you want to give them your referral link so they get a longer free trial while you make money from your referral.
Ģ You have a lot of friends and family on social media or your blog and you want to share your referral links.
Ģ You're a consultant helping companies start and grow service businesses, and you want to refer them to BookingKoala to earn a commission.

2. The second, extremely easy and effective way to earn passive income is to leave your Powered by BookingKoala badges on your website, booking form, and emails. If you're already growing a business, you'll benefit because competitors and others spy on your business all the time. By leaving these badges they can find the software you use. Most of the time, they find the software anyway; by allowing them to click your Powered By Badge, you'll at least make money from it.

Example of leveraging a Powered By Badge

Ģ Step 1: You already have a business and a website with BookingKoala Powered by badges on it.
Ģ Step 2: Someone lands on your website and decides to look around. Later, they decide to find out what software or booking system you are using because they are either already in business or are looking to start a business.
Ģ Step 3: They click on your Powered By BookingKoala badges (from an email campaign you send, or by looking over your website or booking form).
Ģ Step 4: If they sign up for a trial and start paying for BookingKoala, you will earn 40% for 24 months. If that is a Premium customer, you will get $1,891.20 passively.
Ģ Step 5: Later, if that customer starts referring customers to us, you will get 10% off all commissions that they receive. If we pay them $10,000 in commissions, you will get $1,000. Why? Because your Powered By Badge brought them to BookingKoala, so we want to reward you.
Ģ We know you're in the business of making money since you are already operating a business. Why not make some extra money passively, all by leaving your Powered By Badges on.

Do I have to sell the referral?

No! Super simple: the most important thing is for someone to use your referral links and powered by BookingKoala badges. Once they click those links, we will use our marketing strategies and branding to furture the lead into a paying customer.

Rules:

Ģ You get 40% for every paying customer who uses your referral link for up to 24 months. For example, if you refer a Premium client and they use BookingKoala for 24 months, you will get $1,891.20 .
Ģ If your referral becomes an affiliate you will get 10% of all their commissions. For example, if we pay them $1,000 in commissions that month, you will get $100 .
Ģ If 20 of your referrals become affiliates, and over 5 years, we pay them $1,000,000 in commissions, you will get $100,000 .
Ģ Bonus 1: Receive $1,000 in commissions in your first 3 months and get a $1,000 bonus (just let us know and we will add it to your payout).
Ģ Bonus 2: Reach your first $50,000 in commissions in the first 24 months and get a $10,000 bonus (total $60,000) OR reach $50,000 in commissions in your first 12 months and get a $20,000 bonus (total $70,000) Just let us know and we will add it to your payout!
Ģ Users are cookied for 120 days .
Ģ If your referral signs up and starts a trial within 12 months , you will still get commissions for that referral.
Ģ If your referral cancels and returns within 12 months , you will still get commissions for that referral.
Ģ Commissions are subject to change at any time without notice.
Ģ Bonuses are subject to change at any time without notice.
Ģ Commissions are paid out 60 days after the last day of the commission month. For example, if commissions are earned January 1st-31st , you will get payment the first week of April . This is to account for all refunds and disputes.
Ģ There may be commission adjustments if refunds or disputes are made after paying the affiliate commissions. The adjustments will be reflected in a future payment to the affiliate.
Ģ A paying customer cannot cancel their account and re-sign up using your referral codes, nor can they earn you commissions if they are already an existing BookingKoala client.
Ģ In the case where a customer is already a BookingKoala paying client, you can only get commissions if the customer upgrades to Premium, and if they downgrade later, your commissions will be lost (this applies to users who are still using the 14-day free trial).
Ģ If a lead completes a free trial and does not start paying right away, they have 365 days to be a paying customer for you to receive commissions.
Ģ You or the business that is associated with you cannot sign up for BookingKoala using your own affiliate link or a link that is associated with you.
Ģ We reserve the right to cancel any payment or terminate your account.

Offer 2: SalesHangry software (coming soon)
As soon as we release this program, we will let you know here!

If you have any questions regarding the affiliate program, please email us at partners@bookingkoala.com or join our Facebook Affiliate group .



Request feature page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/request-features

Request feature page
Learn how to request new BookingKoala features that may be helpful to your business.

Last updated on 10 Sept, 2024

Feedback is very important to us here at BookingKoala. We regularly monitor our Feature Request page and use these points when working on new software updates.

If you'd like to share your ideas for new features or improvements to the software, click here (https://feedback.bookingkoala.com/contribute/feature-requests/). Click the blue "Submit Feedback" button and a pop-up will appear where you can enter in a title and description for your feedback/request.

You can also search the existing feature requests and feedback by clicking on the magnifying glass icon. If you like an idea, click the up arrow icon to upvote it.

You can sort the feature requests by what is trending, what has the most votes, and what is the newest.

We also have a Roadmap feature that shows which requests have been completed, which are in the planning stages, and our top feedback and requests. Click here (https://feedback.bookingkoala.com/) to view the BookingKoala Roadmap.

In addition to this, we have a Changelog that chronicles all of our software updates, bug fixes, and feature releases. Click here (https://feedback.bookingkoala.com/changelog/) to view the BookingKoala Changelog.



Customer Service & Support Resources
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/24-7-365-support

Customer Service & Support Resources
Learn how to reach BookingKoala and the fastest way to get help.

Last updated on 25 Apr, 2025

Live Support
At BookingKoala, we offer 24/7, 365-day support via email. We receive hundreds of emails every day so we appreciate your patience with us. We strive to provide the best customer support possible and can typically answer questions you have within a few hours or sooner. Keep in mind occasionally or when questions are more technical it may take longer.

We can be reached via email at support@bookingkoala.com .

You can call us at +1 (800) 671-9655 for phone support. If someone does not pick up, please leave us a detailed voicemail and someone will call you back as soon as they are available.

To schedule a Demo please click here (https://calendly.com/bookingkoala) and pick a date and time.

For product updates, important statuses, and more click here (https://new.bookingkoala.com/updates/) and Subscribe to get updates.

At this time we do not offer any live chat support but you can use the live chat widget to browse through help center articles or send us an email.

Other Ways to Receive Help
For the fastest support, please search our help center (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help) for articles on general information, how to set up your store, and troubleshooting common problems.

Another great way to get help is to ask other entrepreneurs and developers using BookingKoala inside of our Facebook group (https://www.facebook.com/groups/bookingkoala) .

This is also a great resource when it comes to asking questions about how to run your business, getting advice on specific situations, and finding freelancers who can help with your setup and design.



2. Account
Articles in this collection (4):

43 Close/cancel your account
44 Logging in
45 Resetting passwords
46 Upgrade or downgrade your subscription



Close/cancel your account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/pausing-or-closing-your-account

Close/cancel your account
Learn how to cancel your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 30 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Close your account
Ģ Determine if your cancellation request was sent successfully

How to Close Your Account
If you'd like to cancel your account, go to: Settings > Account > Subscription Plans

Under "Current Plan" click the red "Cancel Subscription" button. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to cancel.

If you are sure you are ready to close your account, click the grey "Yes" button to proceed.

Please note: When you cancel your account, your entire account will be deleted and we will not be able to retrieve any previously stored data like customers, providers, leads, and your store/booking form settings.

Click here to learn how to export your customer data.
Click here to learn how to export your provider data.
Click here to learn how to export your lead data.

Has my cancellation request been received?
To check if your cancelation request has been received, you can go back to: Settings > Account > Subscription Plans

If you do not see the option anymore, that means you have already clicked on the "Cancel Subscription" button and your request has been received successfully. If you have further questions, you are always welcome

Can I pause my account?
Unfortunately, there is no option to pause subscription plans at this time. We recommend downgrading to the Starter subscription if you would like to retain your data.



Logging in
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/logging-in

Logging in
Last updated on 30 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

How to Login
Login Via The BookingKoala Homepage

Admin (the creator/owner of the account) can log in through the login page on BookingKoala's homepage.

Click the orange "Login" button in the top right corner of the page and then enter the email address and password on this page to be automatically signed into your store.

Login via Your BookingKoala Domain

All users (staff, admin, customers, and providers) can log in using the login page associated with your BookingKoala subdomain.

For example, if you entered "demo2" as the store name when first signing up, the login page for your Bookingkoala subdomain would be: https://demo2.bookingkoala.com/login

Users can also go to your business's main domain and click the "Login/Signup" link at the top of the header to navigate to the Login page.

Once they enter their login details under the "Sign In Through Your Email" section, they will click the "Sign In" button and this will open their dashboard.

If you have enabled sign-in/sign-up with Facebook or Google, customers can also log in by clicking either of these options on the login page. Please note that these options will not work for admin, staff, or provider accounts.

After clicking the button, a pop-up window will allow users to enter their Facebook or Google email and password. Hit the enter key or click "Log In" to finish logging in.

Please note: Customers who log in using either of these options will need to use the same method to view their customer dashboard. Admin, staff, and provider accounts CANNOT use Facebook or Google.

Click here to set up a Facebook login: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/activate-facebook-and-google-sign-up-login Click here to set up a Google login: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/activate-google-sign-up-log-in

Login Via the Login Form on Your Custom Domain

If you have connected a custom domain to one of our themes and have embedded the "Login Form" into your website, all users can go to your custom domain and locate the page with the embedded "login" form.

Click here to learn how to embed forms into an existing website: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/embed-the-forms-on-your-existing-website Click here to learn how to connect a custom domain or subdomain: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-custom-domains



Resetting passwords
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/reset-password

Resetting passwords
Last updated on 07 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How admin, staff, customers, and providers can reset their password
Ģ How admin can reset passwords from the backend

Admin Password
When you first signed up for your BookingKoala account, you received an email to confirm your email address. If you did not confirm your email through this link, you will not receive any emails to reset your password.

If you have confirmed your email and are still not receiving anything please email us at support@bookingkoala.com and we will make sure that everything was saved properly.

Reset Password
BookingKoala Homepage

One place the Admin and Staff can reset their password is through the login page on BookingKoala's homepage.

Click the " Login " button in the top right corner of the page.

Then, click the " Forgot Password? " link below the login boxes.

You will be redirected to a " Reset Password " page. Enter your email into the box and click the " Reset Password Now " button.

Your BookingKoala Subdomain

All of your users can reset their password with the login page on the URL that was created for you when you signed up for your account.

For example, if you entered "Demo2" as your store name when you first created your account, your URL would be:

https://demo2.bookingkoala.com

Once you are on the site, click the "Login/Signup " link at the top of the header to navigate to the Login page .  Click the " Forgot Password? " link below the login boxes.

You will be redirected to a " Reset Password " page. Enter your email into the box and click the " Reset Password Now " button.

Login Page on Your Custom Domain

If you have connected a custom domain to one of our themes and have embedded forms onto your website, then all of your users can also go to that domain address and locate the page with the embedded login form.

From here, they can click the " Forgot Password? " link below the login boxes to enter their email address and retrieve their password.

Reset Passwords from the Backend
In addition to these options, the admin can reset the password for other users' accounts if they are logged into their dashboard.

Reset a Customer or Provider's Password

The process of resetting a provider's password is the same as a customer, so for this example, we will go over how to reset a customer's password.

To reset a provider's password, the only difference is you will start by going to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

To reset a customer's password, first go to:

Customers > Customers > [Customer Name]

On the customer or provider's dashboard , click the " Profile " tab.

Then, scroll down towards the bottom of the page until you see the grey " Change Password " button.

A pop-up window will appear where you can enter the new password into the boxes.

Then, decide if you'd like to exclude a notification from being sent to the customer regarding the updated password.  If you do, check the box next to " Exclude notification from being sent ".

Then, click the blue " Save " button in the pop-up window to update the password.

Finally, click the blue " Update " button in the customer's profile to save the new password to their account.

Reset a Staff Account's Password

To reset a staff member's password, go to:

Settings > Staff > Staff Members

Click " Options ", then " Edit " next to the staff member who needs their password reset.

You will be redirected to the staff member's profile .  Click on the grey " Change Password " button at the bottom of the screen.

A pop-up window will appear where you can enter the new password into the boxes.

Then, decide if you'd like to exclude a notification from being sent to the staff member regarding the updated password.  If you do, check the box next to " Exclude notification from being sent ".

Click the blue " Save " button in the pop-up window to update the password.

Finally, click the blue " Save " button in the staff member's profile to save the new password to their account.



Upgrade or downgrade your subscription
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/upgrade-or-downgrade-your-subscription

Upgrade or downgrade your subscription
Learn where to go if you'd like to upgrade or downgrade your BookingKoala subscription.

Last updated on 02 Sept, 2025

In this article, you will learn:
Ģ How to upgrade or downgrade your account
Ģ How prorated subscription charges work
Ģ Common downgrade errors

Upgrade or Downgrade Your BookingKoala Subscription
Perhaps your company is growing, and you want to upgrade your BookingKoala subscription to add more providers and take advantage of the Premium features. Or, maybe you are still in the setup phase and would like to downgrade your account until you are ready to launch. Either way, you can upgrade or downgrade your BookingKoala subscription directly from your admin account anytime.

To change your subscription plan, please go to: Settings > Account > Subscription Plans

Scroll down the page until you see the three main subscriptions. Your current plan will have a green label that says "Current". The other plans will have a blue button that says "Select".

Click the "Select" button beneath the plan you would like to upgrade or downgrade to and a side panel will open. Here you can decide whether to use the card on file or add a new card for the plan change charge. Then click the "Save" button to complete the change.

The system will charge the additional amount for the remaining time in the current billing cycle immediately, and then the monthly prices will be charged on the billing cycle.

If you are already a Premium subscriber and would like to look at larger Premium plans, click on the green "See Larger Plans" button at the top section or scroll further down until you reach the "See Larger Plans" button.

Use the slider to see the price per month and details of what is included in each subscription. Premium plan pricing differs based on the total number of providers or data in gigabytes as well as the total number of contacts included in the Campaign Module.

For example:
Ģ If you anticipate working with up to 100 providers, please select the Premium $397 plan which accounts for 100 total providers.
Ģ If your account currently uses 85 GB of data, select the Premium $357 plan that accounts for up to 90 GB.
Ģ If you have just over 5000 contacts stored in your Campaign Module, select the Premium $237 plan so you have room to grow up to 10,000 contacts.

Once you've toggled to the plan you would like to choose, click the blue "Select" button, select a card for the prorated subscription charge, and then click "Save".

A green system notification will appear at the top right corner of the page, confirming your subscription has been upgraded.

Prorated Subscription Charges
Please note that when you make a subscription change, the payment will always be prorated based on the adjustment, ensuring a fair and accurate charge. This prorated amount will be reflected in your next billing statement.

Ģ If you upgrade, the system will charge the additional amount for the remaining time in the current billing cycle immediately, and then the monthly prices will be charged on the billing cycle.
? For example, if your billing date is on the 13th of every month and you decide to upgrade on the 1st of the month from the Growing $57 plan to the Premium $197 plan, you would only be charged $54.01 for time already spent on the Growing plan.
Ģ If you plan to downgrade your account, the system automatically credits the difference to your account and applies it to your next upcoming balance.
? For example, if your billing date is on the 24th and you downgrade on the 31st from the Premium $197 plan to the Growing $57 plan, your account will be credited $108.99 which will be applied to your regular monthly payments.

If you have any questions about your prorated subscription charges or credits, please do not hesitate to reach out to our support team at support@bookingkoala.com .

Common Errors When Downgrading
It is important to consider how you are currently using your BookingKoala account when deciding to downgrade your subscription, as it may impact your ability to do so. This is because each subscription contains features that may not be included in a lower-tier plan. If you are currently utilizing a feature that is only available on the Growing or Premium subscriptions and want to downgrade to the Starter plan, you may need to disable or delete certain types of data from your account before you can proceed.

A few of the most common restrictions when downgrading to a smaller plan are as follows.

Total Number of Providers The total number of providers you can have in your account (both active and deactivated) varies based on subscription.
Ģ The Starter $27 subscription allows for up to 5 total providers.
Ģ The Growing $57 subscription allows for up to 15 providers.
Ģ The Premium $197 subscription allows for up to 50 providers.
Ģ Larger Premium subscriptions allow for 50+ providers.

For example, if you have 20 total providers (including deactivated provider accounts) and you want to downgrade to the Growing subscription, you will need to delete at least 5 provider accounts before you can continue.

Click here to learn how to deactivate and then delete any provider accounts you do not want to use. Please note that all data associated with the provider account will be permanently deleted along with the profile and cannot be retrieved.

More Than One Industry If you are looking to downgrade from a Growing or Premium subscription to a Starter subscription, you must ensure that you have only one industry.
Ģ The Starter $27 subscription allows for one industry.
Ģ The Growing $57 and Premium subscriptions allow for unlimited industries.

If you have multiple industries set up, you will need to delete whichever industries you do not want to use.

Click here to learn how to delete an industry. Please note that all data associated with that industry will be permanently deleted and cannot be retrieved.

More Than One Location If you are looking to downgrade from a Growing or Premium subscription to a Starter subscription, you must ensure that you have only one location.
Ģ The Starter $27 subscription allows for one location/service area only.
Ģ The Growing $57 and Premium subscriptions allow for unlimited locations and service areas.

If you have multiple industries set up, you will need to delete whichever locations you do not want to use.

Click here to learn how to delete (or consolidate) locations.

Contacts in the Campaign Module Each Premium subscription contains a different threshold for the amount of contacts you can have stored in the Campaign Module.
Ģ The Starter $27 and Growing $57 subscriptions do not include the Campaign Module.
Ģ The Premium $197 plan allows for up to 5000 contacts.
Ģ The Premium $237 plan allows for up to 10,000 contacts.
Ģ The Premium $277 plan allows for up to 15,000 contacts.
Ģ The Premium $317 plan allows for up to 20,000 contacts.
Ģ Etc.

If you are looking to downgrade to a smaller Premium subscription, you will need to ensure that you do not exceed the guidelines for the total number of contacts in your desired plan.

Click here to learn how to delete contacts from your audience(s). Currently, there is no bulk delete button for contacts, however our development team is currently working on an option. In the meantime, please email us at support@bookingkoala.com if you would like to do a bulk delete of your contacts and we will see if we can help.

Premium Checklist Features If you are using multiple dependencies for your checklists or are using the same checklist across multiple service categories, forms, and industries, these are Premium features. Until you remove these components, you will not be able to downgrade to the Starter or Growing plans.
Ģ The Starter $27 and Growing $57 s subscriptions allow you to create a unique checklist for each service category.
Ģ The Premium subscriptions also allow you to create unique checklists for each service category, however, you also can:
? Set up dependencies based on parameters such as location, frequency, or extras
? Make "EXACT/ANY Combinations"
? Use the "Exclude checklist option"
? Use the same checklist for multiple industries and forms

Click here to learn more about checklist dependencies, including where to update them if you'd like to downgrade.



3. Notifications
Articles in this collection (14):

47 Notifications overview
48 Set up Twilio
49 Email notifications overview
50 Setting up Twilio to unsubscribe SMS
51 SMS notifications overview
52 App notifications overview
53 System alerts overview
54 Shortcodes
55 Undelivered emails or Spam
56 How to fix emails being spammed or spoofed
57 Notifications are not going out
58 Master templates for email notifications
59 Add an SMS opt-in option to the forms
60 Invoice notifications



Notifications overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/notifications-overview

Notifications overview
Learn how to set up and activate notifications for the admin, customers, providers, and staff.

Last updated on 18 Apr, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ Which notification types are included in your account
Ģ Who can receive notifications
Ģ Where to locate the notifications section

Notifications Overview
BookingKoala has built an extensive Notifications section to help automate communications from your business. There are four types of notifications that can be enabled for your account.
Ģ Email notifications
Ģ SMS (text) notifications
Ģ App notifications
Ģ System alerts

Email Notifications Email notifications are included in the Starter, Growing, and Premium Subscriptions.Email notifications are notifications that get sent out from BookingKoala to a user's email address. Whenever a certain action takes place inside BookingKoala, a corresponding email will be sent to the email address associated with the account.
Email notifications can be sent to anyone involved in the service process, including theadmin, staff, providers, and customers.

SMS (Text) Notifications SMS notifications are included in the Growing and Premium Subscriptions.
SMS notifications are notifications that get sent out from BookingKoala to a user's phone number via text message through the use of a third-party integration calledTwilio. Whenever a certain action takes place inside BookingKoala, a corresponding text will be sent to the phone number associated with the account.
Currently, SMS notifications can be sent out to theadmin, customers, and providers.

App Notifications App notifications are included in the Growing and Premium Subscriptions.
App notifications are notifications that appear within the app, notifying the user of a new action that was taken. App notifications are displayed whenever a new action that pertains to the provider has been taken in the system. This could include alerts that a new booking has been assigned to them, they have received a new rating, reminders regarding their upcoming appointments, and more.
Onlyproviders can receive app notifications as we have not released the apps for customers, admin, or staff yet.

System Alerts System alerts are included in the Growing and Premium Subscriptions.
System alerts are notifications that display in your dashboard when a new action has been taken by either you, a customer, a provider, or the system itself. You can enable these alerts for almost any kind of activity on your platform like if a new lead fills out a form, a booking is starting soon, a job was canceled, and much more.
Onlyadmin and staff are able to receive and view system alerts. System alerts pertain to day-to-day operations, so they are only displayed from the backend of BookingKoala when logged into an admin or staff account.

Where to Manage Your Notifications
All of your various notifications can be set up, enabled, and edited by going to: Settings > Notifications

There are six sections listed under the "Notifications" section.

General The Generalsection is where you will set up your email and SMS settings.
Click here to learn how to set up your email notifications.
Click here to set up and connect your Twilio account for SMS notifications.

Master Templates The Master Templatessection allows you to create custom email templates to match your business's branding.
Master templates can save you a lot of time when it comes to customizing the appearance of your emails. Once enabled, these can be applied to any other email template in the system to display custom headers, footers, and other sections.
Click here to learn more about how to set up and use master templates for your email notifications.

Emails Click here to learn more about email notifications, including how to enable/disable, edit, and customize.

SMS Click here to learn more about SMS notifications and how to set them up.

App Notifications Click here to learn how to set up app notifications for your providers.

System Alerts Click here to learn more about system alerts and how to enable them for admin and staff.



Set up Twilio
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/set-up-twilio

Set up Twilio
Learn how to set up Twilio to send out SMS notifications.

Last updated on 27 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ What Twilio is used for
Ģ How to create a Twillio account
Ģ How to set up Twilio for third parties
Ģ How to link Twilio to BookingKoala
Ģ How to set up a Twilio auto-responder

What is Twilio?
Twilio is a customer engagement platform that can be used to route automated communications to your providers, staff, and clients. Twilio is integrated with BookingKoala to help you send out automated SMS notifications.

To set up your SMS notification settings you will first need to create a Twilio account if you do not have one already. Click here to get started with a free Twilio account.

Creating your Twilio Account
Once you have created your Twilio account, you will be sent a message to verify your email address. Twilio will send you an email with a link to click.

After clicking the link in the email, you will also need to verify a phone number for your account.

Enter your phone number and click the blue Verify button to send a verification code to your number.

Once you receive the code, enter it into the box and click Submit .

Next, you will be brought to a page where you can select which options to customize your account for your needs.  If you are not sure which settings you'd like, you can always go back and modify your preferences later.

Click the blue Get Started with Twilio button to proceed to your account dashboard.

Setting Up Twilio for Third-Party Integration
Now that your account has been created, you will need to set up a few more aspects before you can link your account to BookingKoala.

Get a Phone Number

First, you will need to get a phone number to send your automated SMS messages.  To get a Trial Number for a free Twilio account, click the blue Get a Trial Number button under the "Project Info" section. A "trial number" in Twilio can send messages and make calls to verified numbers, and all messages will include a note that says it is coming from a "Twilio trial account".

If you are ready to proceed with a paid Twilio subscription (with no restrictions on how to use your number), scroll down to the "Third Party User Guide" and click the blue Get a Number button.

Once clicking either of the Get a Number buttons, a pop-up window will display a phone number. If you'd like, you can select a different number by clicking the link " Search for a different number ".

Click the red Choose This Number button to add the number to your account.

A pop-up will confirm your new phone number has been added. Click " Done " to go back to your dashboard.

Create an API Key

The next component you will need to link your account to BookingKoala is an API key . To generate a new API key, go to the top menu and click:

Account > API Keys

At the bottom of the page, click the red "Authenticate to make changes button" and enter your password to proceed.

On the API Keys page, click the blue " Create API key" button.

A new page will open where you can create your new API key.

61 Friendly name - Enter a name for the key.
62 Key type - Select " Main " to create an API key that can manage other API keys, account configuration, and sub-accounts.

Click the blue " Create API Key " button to generate the new key.  Once the key has been generated, you will see a screen with the key's SID and Secret Key.

Check the box next to "Got it! I have saved my API key SID and secret in a safe place to use in my application" , then click " Done " to go back to the API keys page.

Connecting Twilio to BookingKoala
Now that you have created a phone number and API key, you can connect your Twilio account to enable SMS messages. In your Bookingkoala dashboard, go to:

Settings > Notifications > General

Scroll down to the " SMS Settings " section at the bottom of the page.

Then, open your Twilio dashboard and scroll down to the Account Info section.

63 Account ID - Use the " copy " icon at the far right end of the box to copy and paste your Twilio account ID (or "SID") into the first box in BookingKoala.  Your account ID will always begin with "AC" and then a long string of numbers and letters.  

64 You can also find your account ID by going to Admin > Account Management > API keys and tokens in Twilio.
65 API key - Copy and paste the Auth Token into the box that says " API Key ".
66 Phone no . - Copy and paste your phone number into the third box.

? Make sure your phone number is entered exactly as it is pictured under " My Twilio phone number ".  Enter " + " plus your country code followed by the rest of the phone number.

Ģ For example, " +15672299756 " is correct .
Ģ "15672299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "5672299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "+1(567)2299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "+1-567-229-9756"is incorrect.  

     You can also find your phone number by going to **Phone Numbers > Manage > Active Numbers** in the left side menu in your Twilio dashboard.

Once you have entered each piece of information into the boxes, click the blue " Save " button to connect your Twilio account.

You will see a green system notification letting you know that your Twilio app has been enabled successfully! You are now ready to begin sending out SMS notifications from your BookingKoala account.

Setting up a Twilio Auto-Responder
If you are using Twilio to send out automated text messages to your customers, providers, or even yourself, you may also want to set up an auto-responder just in case someone replies to your text message.

Twilio put together this guide to help you set the responder up. Click here to visit the guide.

Once you set the auto-responder, a message will automatically be sent back to anyone who replies to a notification.

For example, you can set up an auto-response that says:

We cannot be reached at this number. Please call us at XXX-XXX-XXXX or email us at XXXX@XXXX.COM ¢ Team BookingKoala.



Email notifications overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/email-notifications-overview

Email notifications overview
Learn how to set up your sender email and enable email notifications.

Last updated on 17 Jan, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How email notifications work
Ģ How to set up your sender email address(es)
Ģ Where to enable and disable email notifications
Ģ How to edit email notification templates

How do email notifications work?
Email notifications are notifications that get sent out from BookingKoala to a user's email address. Whenever a certain action takes place inside BookingKoala, a corresponding email will be sent to the email address associated with the account.

The types of email notifications sent out are managed on the Email Notifications page under Settings > Notifications.

Email notifications can be sent to anyone involved in the service process, including the admin, staff, providers, and customers, as long as the notification template has been enabled under the Email Notifications section.

Notifications can also be enabled for specific users by going to their profile and clicking on the Notifications tab.

Verify a "Sender" Email Address
To set up your account to send email notifications, you first need to verify a "sender" email address. A "sender" email address is the email address your BookingKoala account uses to deliver email notifications to the admin, customers, providers, and staff.

To begin setting up your emails, please go to: Settings > Notifications > General

67 Enter your business's Sender Email Address into the first box. Please use a valid, active email address as the verification process requires you to click on a link in an email sent to this inbox.
? Using a domain-based email address like "support@mybusiness.com" or "hello@cleaningservice.com" instead of a personal email address like "firstname.lastname@gmail.com" or "myfullname@yahoo.com" can help authenticate your email address so emails do not go into the spam folder. To learn more about how to prevent emails from being spammed or spoofed, click here.
68 Type in the Display Name you want recipients to see.
? For example, your display name may be "Demo 2 LLC" if your company is called this.
69 Enter an Admin Email Address. This can be the same as the sender's email or you can use a different one.
? The admin email address will be used for notifications under the "Admin" email notifications tab discussed later in this article
70 Enter a Customer Reply-To Email Address. This can also be the same as your admin and/or sender email address, or you can enter a specific address for when customers reply to your emails.

Once you have filled out all the boxes, click the blue "Save" button.

A green system notification will let you know that your settings have been updated successfully. You will now see a blue "Resend Verification Email" button appear next to the sender's email address. This means that the system has sent a verification email to this address.

Go to your inbox and find the email from Support@bookingkoala.com. Inside the email, there will be a link that you must click.

Once you've clicked the link, you will be redirected to an Amazon Web Service (AWS) page that says "Congratulations!". Once you see this, your email is now verified and you can begin sending out email notifications.

If you ever need to change your sender email, you can go back to this page, update the email address, and then click the blue "Update & Resend Verification Email" button.

If you see this green system alert appear in the top right corner of the page after clicking this button, your email address has been verified and you are ready to start sending out email notifications.

How to Enable/Disable Email Notifications
Once you have connected and verified your sender email address, you can take a look at all of the possible notification templates BookingKoala has to offer. Go to: Settings > Notifications > Email Notifications

As mentioned earlier, email notifications can be sent to admin, customers, providers, and staff. To see notifications for each type of user, click the tabs at the top of the page.

All of the notifications are grouped into categories. To view the notifications in a category, click the "plus sign" or anywhere in the heading to expand it.

If a notification is green and reads "Enabled", this means that the notification is live and will notify the user when that action has been taken.

If the notification is red and reads "Disabled", this means that the notification is not live and will not be triggered when the action has been taken.

If you wish to enable/disable an email notification, all you will need to do is click on the "Enable/Disable" button to switch the status. A pop-up will appear asking if you are sure you want to make this change. Click "Yes" to proceed and the notification will be updated.

Editing Email Notifications
You can customize the message and content the user sees when they receive your email notifications. To modify an email notification, click the "pencil icon" to edit it.

You will be redirected to an "Edit Email Template" page.

At the very top right side of the page, there is a blue button that says "View Short Codes". Click this to view a list of "shortcodes", or placeholders for specific user information. Shortcodes can be inserted into your email templates to create a more custom experience for the recipient.

To learn more about how you can use shortcodes in your templates, click here.

The email's name and the trigger will be written at the top of the page for your reference. For example, this email notification "New account" is sent out whenever a new customer account is generated.

Below, you can edit the Subject line the recipient will see.

If you have created a master template you would like to use for this email, you can select it from the "Master Template" drop-down menu.
If you have not created any master templates yet, this will say "None".

If you'd like to use a master template and preview what your email will look like with it, check the box next to "Preview with Master Template".

Below, you will see a preview box to view what the email will look like once it has been saved.

The box at the bottom of the page is the content editor. You can use various tools to modify the language, formatting, and overall layout of your email.

If you'd like to send a test email to see what the email will look like upon arrival, click the orange "Send Test Email" button at the bottom of the page, and then enter the email you want to send it to.

Please note that any shortcodes will NOT be populated as the system will not know which account to pull the information from. Instead, those fields will be populated with dummy data.

Once you are ready to use the notification, be sure to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page. You can also click the grey "Restore to Default" button to restore the template to the system default.



Setting up Twilio to unsubscribe SMS
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-twilio-to-unsubscribe-sms

Setting up Twilio to unsubscribe SMS
Learn how to set up keywords for your SMS campaigns so that customers can unsubscribe from receiving your messages.

Last updated on 27 Jun, 2022

In this article, you will learn how to:

Ģ Set up keywords in Twilio to allow customers to unsubscribe or resubscribe to your SMS messages

Enabling Unsubscribe Keywords in Twilio
BookingKoala has an integration with a service called Twilio to send out your SMS notifications. However, there will be times when your customers may wish to "opt out" of receiving text messages from your service.

Twilio offers you the option to set specific keywords like " STOP ", " UNSUBSCRIBE ", or " CANCEL ". Once a customer replies to your text with one of these keywords, they will be automatically removed from the notifications list.  You can also set up keywords like " START " and " UNSTOP " so your customers can start receiving SMS messages again.

If you want to customize these keywords or the response that your customer will receive, you can use the Advanced Opt-Out for Messaging Services in Twilio.

Click here for more information regarding how opt-out/in messages work in Twilio.

Getting Started

Before you get started, you first must ensure you have created a Twilio account and connected it to your BookingKoala account. Click here for our guide on how to set up and link your Twilio account.

Next, you must create a Messaging Service in your Twilio console.

Login in to your Twilio dashboard, and under the " Develop " menu on the left-hand side, click on:

Messaging > Services

Next, click the blue " Create Message Service " button at the center of the page.

Create a Name for your messaging service and select what you want to use Messaging for, then click the blue "Create Messaging Service " button on the bottom left corner of the page.

Next, click the blue " Add Senders " button to add your phone number(s) to the Sender Pool .  You can select from multiple Senders like phone numbers, WhatsApp numbers, etc.

An " Add Senders " pop-up will appear. If you have a phone number you will be sending your messages from, select " Phone Number " and then click the blue " Continue " button.

Check the box(es) next to the phone number(s) you want to add, then click the blue " Add Phone Numbers " button in the bottom left corner.

Then, click the blue " Step 3: Set Up Integration " button to proceed to the next step.

Under " Incoming Messages ", select the first option " Defer to sender's webhook ".

Then, scroll to the bottom of the screen and click on the blue " Step 4: Add Compliance Info " button.

On the final step, register your Business Profile , US A2P Brand (for users with customers in the US), and Campaign Use Case to upgrade the limits on how many messages you can send out per day.  Once these three steps are completed, you will be able to send up to 1,000,000 messages per day. If you do not anticipate sending more than 3,000 messages a day, you can forgo these steps.

Click here to learn more about A2P 10DLC and how that affects business messaging in the United States.

To finish setting up your Twilio Messaging Service, click the blue " Complete Messaging Service Setup " button on the bottom right corner of the page.

A pop-up will appear, letting you know you have set up a new messaging service.  Click the " View my new Messaging Service " button.

Opt-Out Management

After setting up your Messaging Service in Twilio, you will be redirected to the messaging service " Properties " page. Click on " Opt-Out Management " at the bottom of the left-side menu.

You will be brought to the " Opt-Out Management " page.  Click on the blue " Edit " link to edit the standard opt-out keywords.

Click here to view Twilio's guide to configuring advanced opt-out keywords.

Once you are finished, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page if you added or removed any keywords from the lists.

The final step is to enable your advanced opt-out settings. To do this, click the blue " Enabled Advanced Opt-Out " button at the top right corner of this page.

A pop-up will let you know that the opt-out settings have been enabled successfully.

Please note : If you are using the Campaign Module and configured the same Twilio account you use for your booking notifications, customers will also stop receiving booking notifications if they opt-out of your SMS service. We recommend using a separate account for your campaigns to avoid SMS booking notification issues.



SMS notifications overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/sms-notifications-overview

SMS notifications overview
Learn about how SMS notifications work in BookingKoala.

Last updated on 17 Jan, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How SMS notifications work
Ģ How to set up and connect your Twilio account
Ģ Where to enable and disable SMS notifications

How do SMS notifications work?
SMS notifications are notifications that get sent out from BookingKoala to a user's phone number via text message through the use of a third-party integration called Twilio. Whenever a certain action takes place inside BookingKoala, a corresponding text will be sent to the phone number associated with the account.

The types of email notifications send out are managed on the Email Notifications page under Settings > Notifications.

SMS notifications are sent out to the admin, customers, and providers, as long as the notification template has been enabled under the SMS Notifications section.

Notifications can also be enabled for specific users by going to their profile and clicking on the Notifications tab.

Setting Up and Connecting Your Twilio Account
For SMS notifications to be fully operational, you will need to have a Twilio account connected to your BookingKoala account.

This takes place under: Settings > Notifications > General

Scroll down to the second section of the page called "SMS Settings".

Click here to visit our guide on how to set up and link your Twilio account.

How to Enable/Disable SMS Notifications
Once you have created and linked your Twilio account, you can take a look at all of the possible notification templates BookingKoala has to offer. Go to: Settings > Notifications > SMS Notifications

As mentioned earlier, email notifications can be sent to admin, customers, and providers. To see notifications for each type of user, click the tabs at the top of the page.

All of the notifications are grouped into categories. To view the notifications in a category, click the "plus sign" or anywhere in the heading to expand it.

If a notification is green and reads "Enabled", this means that the notification is live and will notify the user when that action has been taken.

If the notification is red and reads "Disabled", this means that the notification is not live and will not be triggered when the action has been taken.

If you wish to enable/disable an SMS notification, all you will need to do is click on the "Enable/Disable" button to switch the status. A pop-up will appear asking if you are sure you want to make this change. Click "Yes" to proceed and the notification will be updated.

Editing SMS Notifications
You can customize the message the user sees when they receive your SMS notifications. To modify an SMS notification, click the "pencil icon" to edit it.

You will be redirected to an "Edit SMS Template" page.

At the very top right side of the page, there is a blue button that says "View Short Codes". Click this to view a list of "shortcodes", or placeholders for specific user information. Shortcodes can be inserted into your SMS templates to create a more custom experience for the recipient.

To learn more about how you can use shortcodes in your templates, click here.

The message's name and the trigger will be written at the top of the page for your reference. For example, this SMS notification "Account Deactivation Request" is sent out whenever a new customer requests to deactivate their account.

The box at the bottom of the page is the message editor box. To edit the text, click on the box and begin typing.

Please note: if you use a link in your SMS messages, the link will be converted into a short URL using the domain "https://urlnm.com". This is done to avoid large URLs, as Twilio charges more per SMS segment and a longer URL may split your message into multiple segments. To learn more about this, please click here to read Twilio's article on character limits.

If you'd like to send a test SMS to see what the message will look like when it is received, click the orange "Send Test SMS" button at the bottom of the page, and then enter the phone number you want to send it to.

Please note that any shortcodes will NOT be populated as the system will not know which account to pull the information from. Instead, those fields will be populated with dummy data.

Once you are ready to use the notification, be sure to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page. You can also click the grey "Restore to Default" button to restore the template to the system default.



App notifications overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/app-notifications-overview

App notifications overview
You will learn how the app notifications work.

Last updated on 20 Jan, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ What are app notifications
Ģ How the notifications work
Ģ Where to manage app notifications
Ģ How to enable/disable app notifications
Ģ How to edit the app notification messages

What are App Notifications?
App notifications are notifications that appear within the BookingKoala apps, notifying the user of a new action that was taken.

Currently, the only app we have released is the BookingKoala for Providers app . When a provider is logged into the app, they will see a bell icon in the top right-hand corner of the screen. The red box on top of the bell will show the number of new app notifications.

Providers can click the bell icon to view a listing of all recent app notifications.

How Do They Work?
App notifications are displayed whenever a new action that pertains to the provider has been taken in the system.  This could include alerts that a new booking has been assigned to them, they have received a new rating, reminders regarding their upcoming appointments, and more.

When a new action that pertains to the provider has been taken, they will be notified with an in-app notification. These actions could be whenever a new booking that they are assigned to, a new rating/review from a customer, a reminder about an upcoming booking, or anything else you have enabled in the settings section.

Currently, providers can receive app notifications as only the provider app has been released.

Managing Your App Notifications
To view and modify the app notifications, please go to:

Settings > Notifications > App Notifications

All of the app notifications are placed into categories. To view the notifications options, click on the category heading or the plus sign icon to the right.

Once you click on the heading, a drop-down will appear showing all of the notifications within the category.

If a notification is green and reads " Enabled ", the alert is live, active, and will notify you when that action has been taken. If the notification is red and reads " Disabled " this means that the notification is inactive and will not notify you when the action has been taken.

How to Enable/Disable App Notifications
If you wish to enable or disable an app notification, all you need to do is click on the " Enable/Disable " toggle button.

A pop-up will appear asking you to confirm the change, click " Yes " and your change will be automatically saved.

Editing App Notifications
You can customize the message your provider sees when an app notification is sent out.  To do this, click the " Edit " pencil icon.

A new window will open where you can modify the subject and message for the app notification.  Remember to click " Save " to update any changes.  You may also use the " Restore To Default " button to reset the text to the original system's message.

App notifications can also be further customized by adding shortcodes from the View Short Codes button.  To learn more about how shortcodes work, click here.



System alerts overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/system-alerts-overview

System alerts overview
Learn more about how the system alerts work.

Last updated on 20 Jan, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What system alerts are
Ģ How the system alerts work
Ģ Who can receive system alerts
Ģ Where they are located
Ģ How to enable/disable alerts
Ģ How to edit alert messages

What Are System Alerts?
System alerts are notifications that you, as the admin, receive in your dashboard when a new action has been taken by either you, a customer, a provider, or the system itself. System alerts can be checked by clicking on the bell icon at the top right of your dashboard. The red box on top of the bell will show the number of new system alerts.

How Do They Work?
System alerts are simply notifications that let you know when a new action has been taken in BookingKoala. You can enable these alerts for almost any kind of activity in your platform to be notified if a new lead fills out a form, a booking is starting soon, a job was canceled, and much more. You can always enable or disable these alerts at any time in the Notifications section.

To view all recent system alerts, click " See all notifications " at the bottom of the drop-down panel.

Who Can Receive System Alerts?
Admin and staff are able to receive and view system alerts. System alerts pertain to day-to-day operations, so they are only displayed from the backend of BookingKoala when inside an admin or staff account.

Where Are They Located?
To view and modify the system alerts, please go to:

Settings > Notifications > System Alerts

All of the system alerts are placed into categories. To view the alert options, click on the category heading or the plus sign icon to the right.

Once you click on the heading, a drop-down will appear showing all of the system alerts.

If an alert is green and reads " Enabled ", the alert is live, active, and will notify you when that action has been taken. If the alert is red and reads " Disabled " this means that the alert is inactive and will not notify you when the action has been taken.

How Do I Enable or Disable System Alerts?
If you wish to enable or disable a system alert, all you need to do is click on the " Enable/Disable " toggle button.

A pop-up will appear asking you to confirm the change, click " Yes " and your change will be automatically saved.

How Do I Edit the System Alert Text?
You can customize the message you receive when a system alert is triggered. To do this, click the " Edit " pencil icon.

A new window will open where you can modify the message for the system alert. Remember to click " Save " to update any changes. You may also use the " Restore To Default " button to reset the text to the original system's message.



Shortcodes
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/short-codes

Shortcodes
Learn what shortcodes are, where to find them, and how to make changes in the system.

Last updated on 27 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What shortcodes are
Ģ Where to find the shortcodes
Ģ How to edit/add/delete shortcodes in your notifications

What Are Shortcodes?
A shortcode is a placeholder for a piece of information that is specific to your system. Shortcodes are placed within emails or text notification templates to produce a more detailed message with custom information. Shortcodes can be used to customize your email, SMS, and app notifications.

When notifications are sent out, the shortcodes display specific details based on the code. For example, you can insert a shortcode to display the customer's name when sending them a reminder. Instead of the notification reading, "Hello {{.CustomerFirstName}}, we are reminding you of your upcoming booking in 24 hours", it will read, "Hello Monica, we are reminding you of your upcoming booking in 24 hours." The shortcode will populate the correct information from the account that the notification was sent to.

You can add, remove, or replace shortcodes to provide more or less information for each notification. For example, if you are currently using a shortcode to display a customer's first name in a message, you can replace it with a shortcode for their full name instead.

There is a wide variety of shortcodes available to be used in admin, customer, provider, and staff notifications.

Where Do I Find The Shortcodes?
A list of shortcodes can be found on the top right corner of the notification pages for Master Templates, Emails, SMS, and App Notifications.

To find the list, click on:
Ģ Settings > Notifications > Master Templates
Ģ Settings > Notifications > Emails
Ģ Settings > Notifications > SMS
Ģ Settings > Notifications > App Notifications

Click on the blue View Short Codes button at the top right side of the page.

A pop-up window will appear with a list and description of all available shortcodes.

The first column displays the shortcode itself. This is the text that is inserted into the notification content. It will populate with the necessary details when the notification is sent out. The second column is a description of what information is displayed by that shortcode. The third column contains two action buttons.

Ģ The eye icon /" View Scope" button to see which templates use this specific code.
Ģ The double-page icon/"Copy" button allows you to copy the code by simply clicking this button. This is especially helpful when pasting the codes into a template. If the code is misspelled or formatted incorrectly, it will not work.

How Do I Edit/Add/Remove Short Codes in Notifications?
If you would like to further customize your notifications with shortcodes, first navigate to the notification section where you would like to make changes.

Settings > Notifications > Master Templates/Emails/SMS/App Notifications

If applicable, choose the correct tab for the type of user. Please note: the Master Templates and App Notifications sections do not contain these tabs.

Email notifications have tabs for Admin, Customer, Provider, and Staffnotifications.
SMS notifications have tabs forAdmin, Customer, and Provider notifications.

Next, click on the category name or the plus icon to display and locate the notification you would like to modify.

Under the Action column, click on the pencil icon/"Edit" button.

This will now bring you to the inside of the notification template.

To edit, add, or delete a shortcode, scroll down to the bottom half of the page to the text editor. The top half will display whatever changes you make in the text editor box.

Any shortcodes used in the message will always start with "{{." and end with "}}". A new shortcode can be inserted or replace an existing one by copying and pasting the code from the View Short Codes button into the text box.

To remove the shortcode, simply delete the shortcode text from the text editor box.

Always remember to click the blue Save button to update the template once you are finished making edits.

Short Code Reference List
For your reference, the list below contains all shortcodes currently available in BookingKoala as well as their description.

Ģ {{.MerchantFirstName}} This shortcode is used to display the merchant's first name.
Ģ {{.MerchantLastName}} This shortcode is used to display the merchant's last name.
Ģ {{.MerchantFullName}} This shortcode is used to display the merchant's full name.
Ģ {{.CustomerFullName}} This shortcode is used to display the customer's full name.
Ģ {{.CustomerFirstName}} This shortcode is used to display the customer's first name.
Ģ {{.CustomerLastName}} This shortcode is used to display the customer's last name.
Ģ {{.CustomerEmailId}} This shortcode is used to display the customer's email id.
Ģ {{.CustomerPhone}} This shortcode is used to display the customer's primary phone number.
Ģ {{.ProviderFullName}} This shortcode is used to display the provider's full name.
Ģ {{.ProviderFirstName}} This shortcode is used to display the provider's first name.
Ģ {{.ProviderLastName}} This shortcode is used to display the provider's last name.
Ģ {{.ProviderEmailId}} This shortcode is used to display the provider's email id.
Ģ {{.InvitationUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the referral invitation link.
Ģ {{.ReferredEmail}} This shortcode is used to display the referred entity's email.
Ģ {{.ReferredUser}} This shortcode is used to display the referred customer's full name.
Ģ {{.ReferralAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the referral amount rewarded to the customer.
Ģ {{.Rating.Rating}} This shortcode is used to display a booking's rating.
Ģ {{.Rating.BookingId}} This shortcode is used to display the booking ID of the rated booking.
Ģ {{.Provider.AverageRating}} This shortcode is used to display a provider's average rating.
Ģ {{.DiscountedCouponCode}} This shortcode is used to display the random promotional coupon code.
Ģ {{.Giftcard.RecipientName}} This shortcode is used to display the gift card recipient's name.
Ģ {{.Giftcard.SenderFirstName}} This shortcode is used to display the gift card sender's first name.
Ģ {{.Giftcard.SenderLastName}} This shortcode is used to display the gift card sender's last name.
Ģ {{.Giftcard.Amount}} This shortcode is used to display the amount of the gift card.
Ģ {{.Giftcard.Code}} This shortcode is used to display the gift card's unique code.
Ģ {{.Giftcard.Message}} This shortcode is used to display the gift card's message entered by the sender.
Ģ {{.Giftcard.RecipientEmail}} This shortcode is used to display the gift card recipient's email.
Ģ {{.Giftcard.ImageUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the gift card image URL uploaded by the sender.
Ģ {{.NameForInvoice}} This shortcode is used to display the company name on the booking invoice.
Ģ {{.InvoiceId}} This shortcode is used to display the unique invoice number.
Ģ {{.InvoiceDate}} This shortcode is used to display the invoice date in Month DD, YYYY format.
Ģ {{.InvoiceNote}} This shortcode is used to display any additional notes added to the customer's invoice.
Ģ {{.BookingAddress}} This shortcode is used to display the booking's address.
Ģ {{.ExtraAmount}} This shortcode is used to display a booking's extra charge(s) amount if applicable.
Ģ {{.SubTotal}} This shortcode is used to display the booking's base amount without any extra charges or fees.
Ģ {{.TotalAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the booking's total including any extras/additional fees.
Ģ {{.HeaderColor}} This shortcode is used to represent your site's header color.
Ģ {{.TextColor}} This shortcode is used to represent the header's text color.
Ģ {{.StoreLogo}} This shortcode is used to represent your store's logo.
Ģ {{.InvoiceTotal}} This shortcode is used to display the invoice total after issuing any refund on booking.
Ģ {{.InvoiceType}} This shortcode is used to display the type of the invoice either original or refunded.
Ģ {{.Payment.PaymentType}} This shortcode is used to specify which payment was charged: extra charge, tip, cancellation fee, or cancel after the first appointment fee.
Ģ {{.Payment.ChargedAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the amount for any charges for the booking like an extra charge, tip, cancellation fee, or cancel after the first appointment fee.
Ģ {{.ChecklistUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the checklist's URL.
Ģ {{.Note}} This shortcode is used to display notes to customers.
Ģ {{.NextBookingDate}} This shortcode is used to display the next booking's date for a recurring booking.
Ģ {{.AdminMessage}} This shortcode is used to display the reminder message to the admin/staff for the booking.
Ģ {{.ModificationReason}} This shortcode is used to display the reason for the provider schedule/settings update request.
Ģ {{.ModificationRequestUrl}} This shortcode is used to provide the URL that redirects to the schedule or provider settings request page.
Ģ {{.ReminderMessage}} This shortcode is used to display the message to providers while sending invitations from the unassigned folder.
Ģ {{.Amount}} This shortcode is used to display the provider's payment amount for a booking.
Ģ {{.PaymentMethod}} This shortcode is used to display the provider's desired payment method.
Ģ {{.PaidOn}} This shortcode is used to display the provider's payment date.
Ģ {{.FromDate}} This shortcode is used to display the start date for the provider's payment period.
Ģ {{.ToDate}} This shortcode is used to display the end date for the provider's payment period.
Ģ {{.TipAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the provider's tip amount for a booking.
Ģ {{.StoreName}} This shortcode is used to display your store/business name.
Ģ {{.SupportEmail}} This shortcode is used to display your support email.
Ģ {{.SupportPhone}} This shortcode is used to display your support phone number.
Ģ {{.SiteUrl}} This shortcode is used to display your site's URL.
Ģ {{.CurrentDate}} This shortcode is used to display today's date.
Ģ {{.User.FirstName}} This shortcode is used to display the first name of a staff member.
Ģ {{.User.LastName}} This shortcode is used to display the last name of a staff member.
Ģ {{.StaffEmailId}} This shortcode is used to display the email ID of a staff member.
Ģ {{.PasswordSetUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the URL to reset the user's password.
Ģ {{.User.EmailId}} This shortcode is used to display the email ID of the person (either customer, provider, staff, or admin) to whom the email is sent.
Ģ {{.User.PhoneNumber}} This shortcode is used to display the phone number of the person (either customer, provider, staff, or admin) to whom the email is sent.
Ģ {{.User.PhotoUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the photo URL of the person (either customer, provider, staff, or admin) to whom the email is sent.
Ģ {{.BookingDetails}} This shortcode is used to display all details of the booking.
Ģ {{.Booking.Id}} This shortcode is used to display the unique ID of the booking.
Ģ {{.Industry}} This shortcode is used to display the industry name for a booking.
Ģ {{.ServiceCategory}} This shortcode is used to display the booking's service category.
Ģ {{.Frequency}} This shortcode is used to display the booking's frequency.
Ģ {{.Location}} This shortcode is used to display the location of a booking.
Ģ {{.Apt}} This shortcode is used to display an apartment or unit number for a booking.
Ģ {{.PricingParameter}} This shortcode is used to display pricing parameters used on the booking.
Ģ {{.ExcludeParameters}} This shortcode is used to display partial cleaning parameters selected on a booking.
Ģ {{.Packages}} This shortcode is used to display packages selected on a booking.
Ģ {{.PackageAddons}} This shortcode is used to display package addons selected on booking.
Ģ {{.Addons}} This shortcode is used to display addons selected on booking.
Ģ {{.AreaParameter}} This shortcode is used to display area parameters used on a booking.
Ģ {{.Extras}} This shortcode is used to display extras selected on booking.
Ģ {{.BookingDateTime}} This shortcode is used to display the booking date and time in Monday, 01/01/2020 12:00 AM format. The date format is what you set in-store options.
Ģ {{.Booking.BookingDate}} This shortcode is used to display the booking date in 01/01/2020 12:00 AM format. The date format is what you set in-store options.
Ģ {{.BookingDate}} This shortcode is used to display the booking date (only).
Ģ {{.BookingTime}} This shortcode is used to display booking time (only).
Ģ {{.BookingLength}} This shortcode is used to display the total length of the booking.
Ģ {{.Booking.ChargedAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the amount charged for a booking.
Ģ {{.ServiceTotal}} This shortcode is used to display the service total (without discounts) for booking.
Ģ {{.ReferralDiscount}} This shortcode is used to display the referral discount applied on a booking.
Ģ {{.ExpeditedAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the expedited amount for a same-day booking.
Ģ {{.FrequencyDiscount}} This shortcode is used to display the discount on booking for using recurring frequency.
Ģ {{.CouponDiscountAmount}} This shortcode is used to display a coupon discount applied to the booking.
Ģ {{.CouponDiscount}} This shortcode is used to display the coupon discount percentage applied on booking.
Ģ {{.DiscountedTotal}} This shortcode is used to display the discounted total of the booking.
Ģ {{.AdjustedAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the adjusted amount for the booking.
Ģ {{.SalesTax}} This shortcode is used to display sales tax applied on a booking.
Ģ {{.TotalBeforeTipParkingServiceFee}} This shortcode is used to display the total amount to be paid for the booking without any tip, parking, or service fee. If the service fee is taxable on the booking, it will be included in this total. Otherwise, it will be excluded from this total.
Ģ {{.Tip}} This shortcode is used to display tips given on a booking.
Ģ {{.Parking}} This shortcode is used to display the parking fee given on booking.
Ģ {{.ServiceFee}} This shortcode is used to display the service fee given on booking.
Ģ {{.TotalBeforeTax}} This shortcode is used to display the total amount (before sales tax) to be paid for the booking.
Ģ {{.Total}} This shortcode is used to display the total amount to be paid for the booking.
Ģ {{.GiftcardDiscount}} This shortcode is used to display the giftcard discount applied on booking.
Ģ {{.FinalAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the final amount for booking after all discounts and taxes.
Ģ {{.CancellationFee}} This shortcode is used to display the amount of cancellation fee charged for a booking.
Ģ {{.ProviderNames}} This shortcode is used to display the provider names for booking.
Ģ {{.ProviderFee}} This shortcode is used to display the total amount to be paid to the provider for the booking.
Ģ {{.ProviderTip}} This shortcode is used to display the tip amount to be paid to the provider for the booking.
Ģ {{.ProviderParking}} This shortcode is used to display the parking amount to be paid to the provider for the booking.
Ģ {{.ProviderService}} This shortcode is used to display the service fee amount to be paid to the provider for the booking.
Ģ {{.ProviderBonus}} This shortcode is used to display the bonus to be paid to the provider for the booking.
Ģ {{.Reimbursements}} This shortcode is used to display the reimbursements to be paid to the provider for the booking.
Ģ {{.ProviderTotal}} This shortcode is used to display the total amount to be paid to the provider for the booking.
Ģ {{.ProviderBookingPrice}} This shortcode is used to display the booking price to the provider. It will be displayed if the provider is allowed to see the booking price.
Ģ {{.ProviderBookingPaymentMethod}} This shortcode is used to display the booking payment method to the provider. It will be displayed if the provider is allowed to see the booking payment method.
Ģ {{.UnassignedFolderUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the admin's URL path to the unassigned folder.
Ģ {{.CustomerUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the admin's URL path to a customer's profile.
Ģ {{.QuoteUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the quotation URL created for the customer.
Ģ {{.ScheduleRequestDateRange}} This shortcode is used to display the selected date range to update the schedule or send a request to change the schedule.
Ģ {{.ScheduleUpdated}} This shortcode is used to display the updated schedule data.
Ģ {{.RequestedShifts}} This shortcode is used to display the requested schedule to update.
Ģ {{.ProviderAvailabilityChangeReply}} This shortcode is used to display the reply added by the admin while updating the schedule.
Ģ {{.ProviderAvailabilityChangeReason}} This shortcode is used to display the reason given by the provider while updating the schedule or sending a request to update the schedule.
Ģ {{.AllBookingsDetails}} This shortcode is used to display the details of all bookings in a selected date range while sending schedules to providers.
Ģ {{.SendScheduleDateRange}} This shortcode is used to display the selected date range for bookings while sending the schedule to providers.
Ģ {{.RatingUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the URL to allow customers to rate the service without login.
Ģ {{.BookingUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the URL to update the booking.
Ģ {{.BookingClockInUrl}} This shortcode is used to display the admin's URL path to the provider dashboard from where the booking can be clocked in using the "Clock In" button.
Ģ {{.Currency}} This shortcode is used to display your store's currency.
Ģ {{.LocationName}} This shortcode is used to display the name of the location for a booking.
Ģ {{.BookingModifications}} This shortcode is used to display the modifications done for a booking.
Ģ {{.RefundGiftcard.RefundReason}} This shortcode is used to display the reason for which the gift card has been refunded.
Ģ {{.RefundGiftcard.RefundAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the amount that is refunded for the gift card.
Ģ {{.SettingsModificationReason}} This shortcode is used to display the reason added by the provider while updating their settings.
Ģ {{.SettingsModificationAction}} This shortcode is used to display the action (based on store options) taken by the system when providers update their settings.
Ģ {{.PrePaidTotalAmount}} This shortcode is used to display the total amount that was pre-paid for booking(s).
Ģ {{.PrePaidStartDate}} This shortcode is used to display the date of the first booking of a recurring schedule at the time of pre-payment.
Ģ {{.PrePaidEndDate}} This shortcode is used to display the date of the booking up to which the recurring schedule was pre-paid.



Undelivered emails or Spam
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/undelivered-emails

Undelivered emails or Spam
Learn how to know if a notification was not delivered or why they may be going to spam.

Last updated on 28 May, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ Where the undelivered emails are located
Ģ Reasons why emails are marked as undelivered
Ģ Where undelivered SMS messages are located

Undelivered Emails
Any emails that fail to be delivered by the system will be logged inside the Undelivered Emails section.   You can find this section by going to:

Settings > General > Undelivered Emails

Each row contains the user's email address, the email's subject, and the date the email was sent.

There are several reasons why your email(s) have bounced into this section:

71 Your email notification settings have not been set up yet . Click here to learn how to set up and verify your sender email address in BookingKoala.
72 The user's email address is incorrect or invalid .  Most commonly, emails are marked as undelivered because the user's email address is spelled incorrectly or the user's email address has been modified or deleted. It is best to confirm the
73 The user's mailbox is full .  If the user's inbox has run out of storage space, your emails will bounce until enough space has been cleared (emails archived or deleted) for the email to be received.
74 The user's email server is down or overloaded .  If the receiving user's email server is unavailable for any reason (it has crashed, is under maintenance, or cannot be found at all) any emails sent during this period will bounce.
75 Your email address has been blocked .  Emails can bounce if the email address or server has filtering rules in place, or if the user has blocked your address from their account.  These issues can be resolved by contacting the user and asking them to update any filters or blocked contacts for their account.

If an email was marked as undelivered, it will not be resent by the system automatically. You must trigger or resend the email notification again to reattempt the delivery.

Why are my emails going to Spam?
There are many different reasons why emails end up in someone's spam folder. This is very common, and when you have a large list, at least one email will likely end up in the spam folder. Sending emails is all about managing reputation and following best practices that are constantly evolving and becoming stronger.

It is highly recommended to follow best practices when sending emails, especially large promotional ones. Although BookingKoala may permit certain actions when sending an email, that doesn't mean it's a good practice. For example, we allow a sender email to be either a personal email or a business email, and best practice is to use a business email. Another example may be URL shorteners. Although BookingKoala may allow you to include a long URL, it may be flagged, and all your promotional emails may end up in the spam folder. A third example would be emailing someone daily or multiple times per day. Depending on the content of your emails, they may be flagged as spam, and all your emails may end up in the spam folder.

To minimize emails going into the spam folder, please learn more about sender reputation and email deliverability by visiting Google and YouTube. Keep in mind not all email hosts follow the same rules. Google may have different rules regarding what they like, dislike, and flag versus Yahoo or Microsoft.

Also, keep in mind that if one day your emails are all being delivered, that doesn't mean they will continue being delivered the following week. For example, if your reputation does go down because a few customers marked your emails as spam or a system detected that your promotional emails are spam, that may cause all future emails to be directed to the spam folder. Treat your sender's email and reputation with care to avoid hurting your score.

Undelivered SMS Messages
To track the status of your SMS notifications, please visit your Twilio account . At this time, BookingKoala does not log undelivered SMS messages.

Still Need Assistance?

If you have tried all three approaches and your emails are still being spammed or spoofed, please email us at support@bookingkoala.com so we can take a closer look.



How to fix emails being spammed or spoofed
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-fix-emails-being-spammed-or-spoofed

How to fix emails being spammed or spoofed
Learn how to correct the issue of notification emails going into the inbox's spam folder or arriving with a "spoof" message.

Last updated on 28 May, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Different reasons why emails are marked as spam or spoofed
Ģ How to add an SPF record to prevent emails from being spammed
Ģ Configuring your DKIM settings to prevent emails from being spoofed
Ģ Add DMARC records in DNS settings to handle suspicious emails

Why are my emails being marked as spam?
There are many reasons why an email may be marked as spam.

Most commonly, emails will go into the spam folder because the recipient marked them as "spam". This may be intentional or accidental. If enough users mark your emails as spam, this can result in spam filters flagging your email address and putting it into spam automatically. This means it is important to stay on top of emails that have been marked as spam, as there is little you can do once emails begin automatically sending to the spam folder directly.

Another reason may be the recipient's inbox settings. Depending on the email client, certain emails may be sent to spam if they are not added to the recipient's contact list. There could also be security measures that spam emails containing too many "Spam Triggers" in the body or subject line. For example, subject lines starting with "RE:" or "FW:", or containing highly personal questions like "Did you see this message about [topic]?" or "Can you give me a call at [number]?" can trigger spam filters.

A similar issue is when an email client identifies an email as having been "spoofed". Email spoofing is a technique used in spam to forge the email header so that the client's software displays a fraudulent sender address that appears to be from someone the user is familiar with. Emails can be "spoofed" accidentally when emails are sent from a different email address than the one in the "From" field.

However, there are several things you can do to ensure emails are making it into your customers' inboxes:
Ģ Use a domain email as the sender email ID, instead of using public domains like Gmail, Yahoo, etc.
? For example, instead of using "demo2llc@gmail.com" for your sender email, use an email like "info@demo2llc.com".
Ģ Add an SPF record to the email domain to authenticate the email source
Ģ Configure your DKIM settings to add an extra level of security to your emails
Ģ Add DMARC records in DNS to handle suspicious emails

Use a Domain Email
One of the reasons your emails may be marked as spam is because you are using a public domain email address from hosts like Gmail, Yahoo, Outlook, AOL, etc.

For example, Gmail will push emails from public domain addresses to the spam folder and will warn the recipient that "this message seems generous" if the contact is not already added to their contacts list.

Additionally, using a public domain makes it more difficult for your customers to recognize your business, making it less likely they will open your emails. Many email servers use email engagement as a basis for how to deliver messages. If your business's emails remain unopened, the server could start denying future emails from arriving in their inbox.

The best way to avoid these sorts of issues is to use a domain email address for your business.

If you already have a third-party website, check in with your host to see if they offer custom domain email services. Most do! You can also use the links below to explore additional options if you do not have a custom domain.

Click here to set up a professional email address with Google Workspace.
Click here to set up a business email hosted by GoDaddy.
Click here to see business email packages by Microsoft 365.

Add/Update an SPF Record
A Sender Policy Framework, or "SPF" for short, is an email validation standard designed to prevent email spoofing. To set this up, you will publish a TXT record to the DNS configuration of your domain. This process varies depending on which web host you use.

Click the links below to view how to add an SPF record for some of the most common DNS/web hosts.
Ģ Amazon
Ģ GoDaddy
Ģ DreamHost
Ģ Cloudflare
Ģ HostGator
Ģ Namecheap
Ģ Names.co.uk
Ģ Wix

If your domain doesn't have an existing SPF record, you can publish a new TXT record in your DNS Records.

76 For the record type, select TXT (SPF is a type of TXT record).
77 For the name, enter "@" or leave it blank (this depends on your domain host).
78 For the value, enter "v=spf1 include:amazonses.com ~all"
78.1 If you would like to authenticate emails from multiple domains, you can enter each domain separated by a space
78.2 For example: "v=spf1 include:demo2llc.com include:amazonses.com ~all"

Once the record has been updated/added and saved, it can take up to 48 hours to update globally.

Configure DKIM settings
If you are using a domain email address, you can configure your DKIM settings to help with verifying your sender email address. This makes it less likely for the email to be marked as "spam". If you would like to generate and configure your DKIM settings, please follow the steps below.

79 Email us at support@bookingkoala.com to let us know if you would like to generate and configure your DKIM.
80 One of our developers will generate the records and send you a .CSV file containing CNAME records.
81 Download the .CSV file.
82 Login to your domain's hosting dashboard and locate the section where you can edit your DNS.
83 Copy the DNS records from the .CSV file you downloaded and then add them to the DNS settings.
84 Once the settings are populated, any further emails being sent out will not go into spam unless an email from your site is manually "spammed" by the client.

Please note: It normally takes anywhere from 4 to 6 hours up to 72 hours for the DKIM settings to become verified.

Add DMARC records in DNS settings
Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) is an email authentication protocol that uses Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) to detect email spoofing and phishing. In order to comply with DMARC, messages must be authenticated through either SPF or DKIM, but ideally, when both are used with DMARC, you'll be ensuring the highest level of protection possible for your email sending.

Follow the guidelines below to add DMARC records.

85 Login to your domain hosting and go to DNS settings
86 Select Add New Record, and then enter the following details:
? Type: Select TXT.
? Name: _dmarc or _dmarc.yourdomain
? Value: v=DMARC1; p=quarantine; pct=100; rua=mailto:jane@yourdomain
   Replace jane@yourdomain with the email address where you would like to receive notices about DMARC. We recommend using an email address that belongs to the administrator or owner of your domain.

Make sure to change "yourdomain" to your business domain like bookingkoala.com.

The value of the DMARC TXT record includes a ōp=ö parameter. The p stands for ōpolicy.ö When an email appears to be from your domain but doesnÆt contain the correct information, you can use 1 of 3 policies to define how that email gets handled:

87 p=none: The receiving email server performs no action against unauthenticated email but instead sends a report to an email listed in the mailto: address on the DMARC record.
88 p=reject: The receiving email server denies and blocks unauthenticated email.
89 (Recommended) p=quarantine: The receiving email server quarantines unauthenticated email (for example, sending them to a junk or spam folder instead of an inbox).

Still Need Assistance?

If you have tried all three approaches and your emails are still being spammed or spoofed, please email us at support@bookingkoala.com so we can take a closer look.



Notifications are not going out
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/notifications-are-not-going-out

Notifications are not going out
Learn how to troubleshoot notifications not being sent out.

Last updated on 27 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you troubleshoot and fix:
Ģ General email notifications not going out
Ģ General SMS notifications not going out
Ģ Specific email/SMS notifications not going out
Ģ App Notifications/System alerts failing to display

Troubleshooting General Email Notification Issues
Please use the following steps to try and identify what issue(s) are causing your email notifications to fail to send.

1. Have any of your email notifications been received by anyone?
Ģ If Yes, go to the steps in the upcoming section, Troubleshooting Individual Notification Issues.
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure, proceed to the next step.

2. Have you set up your sender email address yet?
Ģ If Yes, proceed to the next step.
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure:
? Please go to: Settings > Notifications > General
89.1 Enter your business's Sender Email Address into the first box. Please use a valid, active email address as the verification process requires you to click on a link in an email sent to this inbox.
Ģ Using a domain-based email address like "support@mybusiness.com" or "hello@cleaningservice.com" instead of a personal email address like "firstname.lastname@gmail.com" or "myfullname@yahoo.com" can help authenticate your email address so emails do not go into the spam folder. To learn more about how to prevent emails from being spammed or spoofed, click here.
89.2 Type in the Display Name you want recipients to see.
Ģ For example, your display name may be "Demo 2 LLC" if your company is called this.
89.3 Enter an Admin Email Address. This can be the same as the sender's email or you can use a different one.
Ģ The admin email address will be used for notifications under the "Admin" email notifications tab discussed later in this article
89.4 Enter a Customer Reply-To Email Address. This can also be the same as your admin and/or sender email address, or you can enter a specific address for when customers reply to your emails.
? Once you have filled out all the boxes, click the blue "Save" button.
? A green system notification will let you know that your settings have been updated successfully. You will now see a blue "Resend Verification Email" button appear next to the sender's email address. This means that the system has sent a verification email to this address. If you did not receive an email, you can always click Resend Verification Email to send it again.
? Go to your inbox and find the email from Support@bookingkoala.com. Inside the email, there will be a link that you must click.
? Once you've clicked the link, you will be redirected to an Amazon Web Service (AWS) page that says "Congratulations!". Once you see this, your email is now verified and you can begin sending out email notifications.

3. Is your sender email address spelled correctly?
Ģ If Yes, proceed to the next step.
Ģ If Unsure/No:
? Go to: Settings > Notifications > General
? Under Email Settings, update your sender, admin, and customer reply-to emails
? Proceed to Step 4 to verify your email address.

4. Have you verified your sender email address?
Ģ If Yes, proceed to the next step.
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure:
? Check that youÆve properly entered your email address(es) into the correct boxes and that you have included a display name.
? Then click the blue ōUpdate & Resend Verification Emailö button.
? An email should have been automatically sent out to the sender email address with a special link to complete the verification process. Proceed to Step 5.

5. Did you receive your initial account verification email? This verification email is sent to your admin email address/the email you signed up for BookingKoala.
Ģ If Yes:
? Click the link in the email you received.
? Once you've clicked the link, you will be redirected to an Amazon Web Service (AWS) page that says "Congratulations!".
? Once you see this, your email is now verified and you can begin sending out email notifications
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure, please proceed to the next step.

6. Did you check your spam folder?
Ģ If Yes:
? If the email is not there, please contact us at support@bookingkoala.com to let us know you have not received your AWS verification email.
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure:
? Please search your inbox and spam folder for an email from support@bookingkoala.com.
? If the email is in spam, add this address to your inboxÆs contacts list and mark the email address as not spam.
Ģ For example, in Gmail, you can click the grey ōReport Not Spamö button to remove emails that automatically went into your spam folder.
? Then, proceed back to Step 5 to complete the verification process.

Troubleshooting General SMS Notification Issues
Please use the following steps to try and identify what issue(s) are causing your SMS notifications to fail to send.

1. Have any of your email notifications been received by anyone?
Ģ If Yes:
? Go to the steps in the following section, Troubleshooting Specific Notification Issues.
Ģ If No or I'm not sure, please proceed to the next step.

2. Have you created your Twilio account yet?
Ģ If Yes, please proceed to the next step.
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure:
? Check out this guide on how to create and set up your Twilio account.

3. Are your API keys correct?
Ģ If Yes, please contact us at support@bookingkoala.com to let us know your API keys are correct but your SMS notifications are still not working.
Ģ If No or I'm not sure:
? Go to: Settings > Notifications > General
? Under SMS Settings, compare your Account ID, API Key (Auth Token), and Phone Number to what you see in your Twilio dashboard under Account Info.
? Make sure your phone number is entered exactly as it is pictured under "My Twilio phone number". Enter "+" plus your country code followed by the rest of the phone number.
Ģ For example, "+15672299756" is correct.
Ģ "15672299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "5672299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "+1(567)2299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "+1-567-229-9756"is incorrect.

Troubleshooting Specific Notification Issues
Please use the following steps to identify the issue(s) that are causing your SMS/Email notifications to fail to send under specific circumstances.

1. Are you have issues with a specific user receiving notifications?
Ģ If Yes:
? Go to that userÆs Dashboard and click on the ōNotificationsö tab.
? Check that the toggle buttons are set to ōEnabledö for Email and/or SMS notifications.
? If any of the individual notifications are "Disabled" in this section, you can click the button to switch them to "Enabled".
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure, proceed to the next step.

2. Are you having notifications issues with a specific type of user, such as providers or customers?
Ģ If Yes:
? Go to: Settings > Notifications > Emails/SMS > [Customers/Providers]
? Make sure that the toggle button at the top of the section is set to ōEnabledö.
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure, proceed to the next step.

3. Are you having issues with a specific notification template not being sent out to all users, like customers or providers?
Ģ If Yes:
? Go to: Settings > Notifications > Emails/SMS > [Customers/Providers]
? Expand each section of the tab to check to locate the template you want to check.
? Once youÆve located the template, make sure the toggle button is set to ōEnabledö.
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure, proceed to the next step.

4. Are some emails being sent out while others are not, seemingly without reason?
Ģ If Yes, please contact us at support@bookingkoala.com to let describe exactly what is occurring to the best of your knowledge so our developers can take a look.

Troubleshooting App and System Alert Notifications
Please use the following steps to identify the issue that is causing your provider's app notifications or the admin's system alerts from displaying properly.

1. Have you enabled the app/system alert notifications?
Ģ If Yes, please proceed to the next step.
Ģ If No or IÆm not sure:
? Go to: Settings > Notifications > App Notifications?System Alerts
? Expand each section of the tab to check to locate the template you want to check.
? Once youÆve located the template, make sure the toggle button is set to ōEnabledö.

2. Did the notifications stop working after initially working as expected?
Ģ If Yes:
? Check that your phone has given permission for BookingKoala to send in-app notifications.
Ģ Go into your phone's Settings and find the Apps section.
Ģ Scroll down until you see a Notifications section and click on it.
Ģ Make sure that notifications are allowed/show notifications are enabled.
Ģ If No:
? If you have not received any app notifications or system alerts despite them being enabled in this section, please let us know at support@bookingkoala.com.



Master templates for email notifications
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/change-the-header-image-in-your-email-notification-templates

Master templates for email notifications
Learn more about how master templates work, including how to enable, edit, and use them to customize your email notifications.

Last updated on01 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ What are master templates
Ģ How to edit the master templates
Ģ How to add a new master template
Ģ How to apply your master templates

What are master templates?
In BookingKoala, master templates are used to apply a custom structure or appearance to another notification.

Master templates can save you a lot of time when it comes to changing the appearance of your emails.  Instead of editing each email template to add a header, footer, or custom section, you can simply apply a master template to affect those changes for you.

Your account comes with two pre-existing master templates, one for customer emails and the other for admin, staff, and provider emails .

To locate the master templates, please go to:

Settings > Notifications > Master Templates

Image

If the button next to each template is green and says " Enabled ", it can be applied to other templates located in the " Email " section.

Editing Master Templates
To edit a master template, click " Options " and select " Edit ".

Image

You will be redirected to an " Edit Email Template " page.  Here, you can edit the template's name , view a preview of the email, and edit the content.

Image

Editing Text

To change the appearance of the text used in the master template, scroll down the content editor box and highlight the words you would like to modify.

Image

Then, click on any of the font tools located in the toolbar at the top of the section.

Image

Using Shortcodes

At the top right side of the page, there is a blue button that says " View Short Codes ". Click this to view a list of " shortcodes ", or placeholders for specific user information.

Image

Shortcodes can be inserted into your email templates to create a more custom experience for the recipient. For example, the Master Template for Customers uses the shortcode {{.StoreName}} to display your business name at the bottom of the email.

Image

To learn more about how you can use shortcodes in your templates, click here .

Replace the Header Image

To change the header image used in your master template, click on the header image in the content editor box . Several small white buttons will appear just below the image.

Click on the "image" button furthest to the right.

Image

A pop-up will appear where you can upload an image from your device. Once an image is uploaded, click the blue " Select " button to insert it into the header space.

Save, Cancel, or Restore to Default

If you are satisfied with the appearance and formatting of your master template, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page to update it.

If you want the template to revert back to the last save, click the grey " Cancel " button to return to the previous page.

If you would like to start over from scratch, click the orange " Restore To Default " button to reset the master template back to the BookingKoala default.

Image

Add a New Master Template
If you would like to use more than two master templates in your email notifications, you can easily make a new one.

Click the blue " Add New " button at the top right corner of the page to build a new master template from the beginning.

Image

Enter a name for the template in the box at the top of the page.

Image

Please refer to the previous section for guidance on how to edit the template body.  Once you are finished, click the blue " Save " button to add the new template to your collection.

Image

You can also duplicate an existing master template and make changes to the new copy. To do this, click on " Options " and select " Duplicate ".

Image

A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to clone the template. Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.

Image

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the template has been duplicated successfully.

You'll see the new template with the word " copy " added to the end of the name.

Image Image

Applying Master Templates to Email Notifications
Once you have finished setting up a master template, you can apply it to be used in your other email templates.

If you would like to apply a master template to all customer email notifications, click " Options " and select " Apply to Emails ".

Image

A pop-up will appear. Select individual templates by checking the box next to the name, or check the box titled " All " to select every template in a tab.

Image

Once you have selected which templates you'd like to update, click the blue " Apply " button at the bottom of the pop-up.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, letting you know that the master template has been applied to the selected notifications.

To view what an email notification looks like with a master template applied, go to:

Settings > Notifications > Emails

Click "Edit" to the far right of the notification name and description.

Image

Once you are on the edit page, scroll down and make sure that a template is selected from the " Master Template " dropdown list.  Check the box next to " Preview with master template " to see a preview of the notification below.

Image

You can switch between templates to view how each master template looks when applied.

Image

If you have switched the template or made any other changes to the notification, please be sure to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the screen.



Add an SMS opt-in option to the forms
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-an-sms-opt-in-option-to-the-forms

Add an SMS opt-in option to the forms
Learn how to add a checkbox to the Book Now form so customers can consent to receive SMS from your store.

Last updated on 18 Apr, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to enable an SMS consent checkbox for customers on the booking form
Ģ How existing customers can opt in or out of SMS from their dashboard
Ģ How admin can opt new customers in or out of SMS from the New Customer form

Getting Started
Before you can enable the SMS consent checkbox for customers, please be sure you have connected Twilio as your SMS sender as per this article (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/sms-notifications-overview).

Enable SMS Opt-In On the Booking Form
Twilio has made it mandatory to integrate 10DLC if the system is sending SMS notifications to customer phone numbers. Click here (https://www.twilio.com/en-us/a2p-10dlc) to learn more about 10DLC and how it impacts your customer's ability to receive SMS.

We have added the opt-in option with the phone number field on the booking form and other places and customers can opt-out if they do not want to get SMS notifications. To show this option, you first need to enable the field from the website and theme builder with the option shown. Go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

To go to the "Book Now" page, select the top center Page menu and select Book Now.

Scroll down to the phone number area under the Customer Details section and look for the text "Send me reminders about my booking via text message" with a checkbox next to it.

This option should be automatically enabled so customers can consent to receiving SMS from your company. If this feature is disabled, you will see a hidden element label over the text.

To enable this feature, click where it says Hidden Element to reveal the Edit button in the top left corner of the area. Click Edit and then click the Hide button to switch it to Show. You can also edit the opt-in text in this section.

If you have made any changes, please be sure to click the blue Save & Publish button in the top right corner of the website builder to push your changes live.

Existing Customer Opt-In or Out of SMS Notifications
At the time of the launch of this SMS opt-in feature, it was enabled for all the existing customers by default as they were already receiving the notifications.

Existing customer can log in to their dashboard and view the Edit Personal Details page to opt in or out of SMS notifications. Once they scroll down to the phone number section, they will see a checkbox with the text "Send me reminders via text message".

Customers can check or uncheck the box depending on their preference, then click the Update Profile button at the bottom right corner of the page to update their notification settings.

New Customer Opt-In or Out of SMS Notifications
As shown above, new customers will be able to opt-in to SMS notifications about their bookings when they fill out the Book Now form on your website.

If you are creating a new customer from the admin dashboard, the same opt-in option is also available. Go to:

Customers > Add New

Scroll down to the phone number section and look for the checkbox next to the text "Send me reminders via text message". If the box is checked, that new customer will receive SMS notifications about their bookings once they are scheduled.

Advanced Opt-In and -Out Options via Twilio
Customers can also opt out of SMS sent by your company using opt-out phrases per this article (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-twilio-to-unsubscribe-sms).

Twilio offers you the option to set specific keywords like "STOP", "UNSUBSCRIBE", or "CANCEL". Once a customer replies to your text with one of these keywords, they will be automatically removed from the notifications list. You can also set up keywords like "START" and "UNSTOP" so your customers can start receiving SMS messages again.

If you want to customize these keywords or the response that your customer will receive, you can use the Advanced Opt-Out for Messaging Services in Twilio.

Click here (https://support.twilio.com/hc/en-us/articles/223134027-Twilio-support-for-opt-out-keywords-SMS-STOP-filtering-) for more information regarding how opt-out/in messages work in Twilio.



Invoice notifications
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/invoice-notifications

Invoice notifications
Learn how to enable, disable, or modify invoice-related emails and SMS for admin and customers.

Last updated on 30 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ Where to locate invoice notifications for admin and customers
Ģ How to enable or disable invoice emails and SMS
Ģ How to customize and edit invoice notifications

Where do I manage my invoice notifications?
All of your invoice-related notifications are managed under the Notifications section.  Go to:

Settings > Notifications > Emails or SMS > Admin or Customer tab > Invoice section

Customer Email Notifications

The following templates are available for customer emails.

Customer SMS Notifications

The following templates are available for customer texts.

Admin Email Notifications

The following templates are available for admin emails.

Admin SMS Notifications

The following templates are available for admin texts.

Enable or Disable Invoice Notifications
To enable or disable any of the email or SMS notifications, click the green " Enabled " button to switch it to " Disabled ", or vice versa.  A pop-up will ask if you are sure you would like to continue with enabling or disabling the notification.  Click " Yes " to continue.

For example, if one disables the customer " New Invoice " SMS notification, customers will no longer automatically receive a text when a new invoice is generated for them.  Instead, the admin or staff would need to manually text customers if they wanted them to be notified.

Customize Your Invoice Notifications
Any email or SMS notification can be edited by clicking the pencil icon /" Edit " button to the right of the template's description.

Templates can be further customized by using short codes and master templates.

Ģ Click here to learn more about short codes for emails and SMS.
Ģ Click here to learn more about master templates for emails.

Some notifications have a "Schedule Reminder" button.

This can be used to set reminder-based notifications to occur at specific times of the day.



4. Integrations
Articles in this collection (27):

90 How to set up Stripe as your payment processor
91 For admin: How to connect a provider Stripe account
92 Connect a Stripe account with a customer profile
93 How to connect a PayPal/Braintree account
94 For admin: Connecting provider PayPal accounts
95 How to connect a Square account
96 Quickbooks overview
97 Zapier integration
98 Creating Zaps in Zapier
99 Google Analytics and adding tracking codes
100 Google Adwords
101 Activate Google sign up/log in
102 Activate Facebook sign up/log in
103 Facebook pixel
104 Setting up taxes with Taxify
105 How to connect your Mailchimp account
106 MailChimp email lists and abandoned cart
107 How to fix your "Social Share" details
108 How to connect an Authorize.net account
109 How to set up Stripe to pay providers
110 3D Secure 2.0 (3DS2)
111 How to connect your providers and set up branding on Stripe
112 Make (Integromat) integration guide
113 Sync bookings to Google Calendar
114 Sync events to Google Sheets
115 Connecting Xero to BookingKoala
116 Connecting Xero to BookingKoala



How to set up Stripe as your payment processor
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-connect-your-stripe-account

How to set up Stripe as your payment processor
Learn how to connect your Stripe account(s) so you can save credit cards, process payments, and perform refunds from your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 20 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Create a Stripe account
Ģ Flush out any test data
Ģ Connect Stripe as your payment processor
Ģ Connect multiple Stripe accounts per location

Creating a Stripe account
If you do not have one already, begin by signing up for an account with Stripe.
Ģ For questions about how to set up your Stripe account, visit Stripe's Support Center to see guides or learn how to get ahold of a support representative.
Ģ Click here to learn more about Stripe's fees and pricing.

Flush your test data
Next, if you haven't done so already, you will need to flush the test data out of the system. Every new BookingKoala account includes a few fake customers, providers, and bookings to better help you understand the system and test your settings. It is important to flush the test data before incorporating your payment processor, as any existing bookings with payment options may affect the accuracy of your revenue and earnings reports.

Click here to learn how to purge the test data from your account.

Finding your API keys and tokens
You will connect your account by entering two special keys from your Stripe account into your BookingKoala settings.

Next, click on API keys from the Developers menu on the left. If you are ready to start collecting real customer payments, you will want to make sure it says "Viewing live API keys" at the top of the screen.

If it shows you are viewing your test API keys instead, click the "View test data" button to turn it off. You are also welcome to connect test keys if you are not ready to start collecting real payments just yet. Click here to learn more about why test mode exists and how to use it.

The two keys we use to connect your account are located in the Standard Keys section.
Ģ The publishable key always begins with "pk_live_" and proceeds with a long string of numbers and letters.
Ģ The secret key always begins with "sk_live_", followed by numbers and letters.
? For security purposes, the secret key will be partially obscured or hidden from the API keys section. Look for a "Review Live Key" button and click it to copy the entire code.
? If part of the secret key includes "..." and appears to have fewer characters than the publishable key, the full code is not displayed.
? If you are unable to reveal the entire secret key, use the white "Create Secret Key" button to generate a new secret key. Be sure to copy the entire secret key code BEFORE you exit the screen displaying the new code.

For more questions regarding Stripe API keys and tokens, please see Stripe's API keys guide.

Connecting the Stripe Account to BookingKoala
After locating your API keys, open your BookingKoala in a separate window and go to: Settings > General > Store Options > Admin

Scroll down to the Connect Payment Gateways section at the bottom of the page. Next to the option "Enable or disable your payment processor", click the red "Disabled" button. A pop-up window will appear, click Yes to continue.

Next, click on the Stripe tab from the side panel.

Here, you will paste your publishable key into the Publish Key box, and the secret key into the Secret Key box.

Click the blue Save button to connect the account. A green system alert will appear at the top right section of the page letting you know your Stripe integration has been saved successfully.

Optional: Using separate Stripe accounts for each location
If your store uses locations, you will need to make sure your payment processor is linked to your location(s).

If you have not set up your locations yet, please check out the article Setting Up Locations for Every Form.

To edit your locations, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Locations

Next, select the Options menu next to your location and click Edit.

Click the blue Next button on the bottom of the first page to proceed to the second page where it says Setup Stripe account.

If you have one Stripe account that you will use for all of your payment processing, make sure "No, Use Default" has been selected. Anyone who books within this location will have their card information stored inside the stripe account you just connected in the Store Options settings.

Some businesses operate with multiple Stripe accounts using one for each location. Using a different Stripe account for each location can be helpful for tax purposes or more in-depth income tracking.

For example, let's say you have a location in Chicago and another in San Diego. If a client books for the San Diego location, their cards will be stored in the San Diego Stripe only. If the same customer creates a new booking in Chicago, the card will be saved into the Chicago Stripe account separately.

If you have multiple stripe accounts, you can select the "Custom" option to set up which location is associated with each account.

To connect a different Stripe account, you will again need to use the Publish/able key and the Secret key as found in the API Keys tab under the Developers section in your dashboard. In addition to that, you will also enter the client ID.

To locate the client ID, click on the Settings wheel icon on the top right side of your Stripe Dashboard.

Under the Product settings section, click on the Connect box.

Click "Onboarding Options."

Click the "OAuth" tab.

This will bring you to the section where you can copy the "Live mode client ID". Please ensure that the OAuth settings are enabled.

Check to ensure you are viewing the live client ID, as opposed to the test data. If you are connecting a test account, click the toggle to View Test Data instead.

The client ID will always begin with "ca_" and then a long string of letters and numbers.

Paste the ID and keys into the correct boxes, then click the blue Update button. This location will now have a custom Stripe account linked.

Once your Stripe account(s) are set up for your locations, you will be able to collect credit and debit cards from customers. Each time a user is charged, the amount will be deposited into your Stripe account. From there, you can decide how you want your funds deposited.

For instructions on how to link your bank account(s) and set up payouts, please click here.

Please make sure your Stripe account is confirmed and activated to avoid future errors. Follow the information in your Stripe account or contact Stripe Support to make sure your Stripe account is live and ready to go.

Are you ready to start sending payments to providers?
Click here to visit the guide on how to set up Stripe Connect and connect your provider's accounts for payouts and deposits.

Once you have integrated Stripe Connect with your booking Koala, click here to learn how you can create and/or connect provider Stripe accounts to receive payouts from your account.

If you would like your providers to be able to set up and connect their own Stripe accounts, click here.



For admin: How to connect a provider Stripe account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/connecting-provider-stripe-accounts

For admin: How to connect a provider Stripe account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/connecting-provider-stripe-accounts



BookingKoala

Back To BookingKoala

Looking for help?

Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides

BookingKoala Help Center

Integrations

For admin: How to connect a provider Stripe account

Integrations

For admin: How to connect a provider Stripe account

Learn how to create and connect a provider's Stripe accounts so that you can easily transfer their payments from your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 13 Nov, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:Ā

How to connect your provider's Stripe accounts

Ā

Getting Started

Before you can pay providers via Stripe through BookingKoala, you must set up Stripe to collect payments and charge customers.ĀClick here to learn more.

Next, you will need to set up and integrate Stripe Connect. If you have not done so already, click here to follow the step-by-step guide.

Ā

Connecting Provider Stripe Accounts

Now that you've set up and connected your Stripe Connect platform, you are ready to begin connecting provider accounts so you can send out their payments. Admin can connect a provider's Stripe account in a few different ways.

The admin can connect an existing Stripe account to the provider's BookingKoala account.

The admin can create a new Stripe account (with the participation of the provider) and connect it to their BookingKoala account.

If you would like your providers to set up their own accounts, click here to learn more.ĀĀ

Ā

Connect an Existing Account Using an Account ID (Admin Instructions)

If your provider already has a Stripe account and knows their account ID, the admin can connect their account to their BookingKoala platform using this ID. For this,

Step 1: Log into your stripe dashboard i.e. https://stripe.com/

Step 2: Go to the "Connect" page on your stripe dashboard

https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/connect/accounts/overview

Ā

Step 3: Click on the "Create" buttonĀ

Ā

Step 4: Generate a link with the popupĀ

Ā

Step 5: Send the link to the provider and ask your providers to complete the setup and connect.

Providers can find the account ID inside their Stripe Dashboard by clicking on the settings wheel near the top right corner of the page.

Next, scroll down to the "Business Settings" section and click on the "Account Details" link.ĀĀ

The account ID will be located in the top right corner of the page and begins with "acct_".Ā Copy the ID by clicking the clipboard icon.ĀĀ

Once the provider has shared the account ID with the admin, login to the BookingKoala admin dashboard and go to:

Providers > [Provider Name] > Profile > Payment Processor

Before proceeding, make sure you are signed out of all Stripe accounts in your current browser. Otherwise, the system will try to connect to whichever account you are logged into currently.

If you forgot to log out of an account, the wrong Stripe account may have gotten connected. If this happens, you can easily disconnect the account by clicking the red "X" button under the "Payment Processor" section and then starting over.ĀĀ

Find the "Provider Stripe Connect" box and click the "Disabled" toggle button to switch it to "Enabled".

Paste the ID into the Stripe account id box and click the "Save" button.ĀĀ

A green system alert will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the account has been connected successfully.ĀĀ

You will also see that there is a "Connected with Stripe" message under the "Payment Processor" tab.

Now the provider will be able to receive payments from your Stripe account.Ā

Ā

Connecting an Existing Stripe Account (Admin Instructions)Ā

To proceed with connecting a provider's account from the admin dashboard, open your BookingKoala admin dashboard and go to:

Providers > [Provider Name] > Profile > Payment Processor

Before proceeding, make sure you are signed out of all Stripe accounts in your current browser. Otherwise, the system will try to connect to whichever account you are logged into currently.

If you forgot to log out of an account, the wrong Stripe account may have gotten connected. If this happens, you can easily disconnect the account by clicking the red "X" button under the "Payment Processor" section and then starting over.ĀĀ

Next, click the blue "Connect with Stripe" button.

A separate pop-up window will appear. If no window pops up in a web browser, please check your internet browser settings and allow pop-ups from this site.ĀĀ

Next, enter theĀemail address connected to the Stripe account and click the blue "Continue" button.Ā

There will be a login page with a password box. Enter the provider's password, then click the blue "Log in" button.ĀĀ

Next, select the account you would like to connect to and then click the blue "Connect" button.Ā

Give the system a moment to load while the connection takes place.Ā Please do not close or refresh the page until it finishes loading. Once the connection is complete, the pop-up will display this message:

You can now close out this pop-up window. If you refresh the "Payment Processor" tab of the provider's dashboard, you will now see a message that says "Connected with Stripe".ĀĀ

Ā

Creating and Connecting a New Stripe Account (Admin Instructions)

If your provider does not have a Stripe account yet, that is okay! One can be created directly from the pop-up in the "Payment Processor" tab.Ā This can be completed by an admin if they have access to the provider's personal details.

To begin, open your BookingKoala admin dashboard and go to:

Providers > [Provider Name] > Profile > Payment Processor

Before proceeding, make sure you are signed out of all Stripe accounts in your current browser. Otherwise, the system will try to connect to whichever account you are logged into currently.

If you forgot to log out of an account, the wrong Stripe account may have gotten connected. If this happens, you can easily disconnect the account by clicking the red "X" button under the "Payment Processor" section and then starting over.ĀĀ

Next, click the blue "Connect with Stripe" button.

A separate pop-up window will appear. If no window pop up, please check your internet browser settings that you have allowed pop-ups from this site.ĀĀ

First, enter the email address the provider will be using for the accountĀand click the blue "Next" button.Ā

Then, enter a password for the account. This can always be changed later on.

Enter the provider's phone number. This will be used to enable two-step verification, which is required by Stripe. You must enter a valid phone number that your provider has access to in order to proceed.Ā Then click the blue "Send Text" button to send out the verification code to the phone number.

Once you receive theĀ6-digit verification code,Āpaste it into the boxes below. The next step will appear automatically upon entering the correct code.

The following pageĀwill display an emergency backup code. This code is used in case of an emergency if a provider needs to reset their password but no longer has access to their phone number.

ClickĀCopy CodeĀor Download CodeĀand give it to the provider to store in a save place. Then, click theĀ "Next" button.

Next, fill out the following questions about the provider and your business.ĀĀ

Select the provider's country.

Enter the provider's full address.

Select the type of business the provider has.

Most accounts will be set up as an "individual", if they have not filed paperwork to register as a business.ĀĀ

If the provider does have a registered business, select "company" and pick which business structure they use.

You can also select "nonprofit organization" if applicable.

Then, click the blue "Continue" button.Ā

Enter the provider's first and last name.Ā

Enter the provider's contact email address.Ā

Type in the provider's date of birth.

Enter the provider's contact phone number.ĀĀ

Enter the last four digits of the provider's security/tax id (SSN if in the USA).ĀĀ

Then, click the "Continue" button.

Select the industry of your business. If you are not sure, you can select "Software".ĀĀ

Enter your business's website URL.ĀĀ

Enter a shortĀdescription of what goods or services are offered by the business. For example, you may write "Commercial and residential cleaning services" if it is a cleaning company, or "Tutoring high schoolers for their ACT or SAT exam" if it is a tutoring business.ĀĀ

Click the "Continue" button.ĀĀ

Next, provide more information about who the customers are, what the business sells, and when customer payments are collected. This can vary depending on the nature of your business.ĀĀ

Click "Continue".Ā Next, connect the provider's checking account for direct deposits.

You can click "Enter bank details manually instead" if you would like to manually enter theĀrouting and checking numbers. If the provider is with you, they can use the search bar to look up their bank and log in to connect their account.ĀĀ

If you are entering the account details manually, a separate pop-up window will appear where you can enter their routingĀandĀchecking account numbers.ĀĀ

Click the blue "Save" button.Ā You will now see the provider's bank account listed in the pop-up.Ā Select it and click "Continue".Ā

If they are logging into their online bank account, follow the prompts until they reach the "Success" window.Ā Click "Done" to proceed.ĀĀ

Next, enter a: 1. "Statement Descriptor" and a 2. "Shortened Descriptor" into the first and second boxes. This will appear on the customer's credit card when you charge them for your services.Ā Ā

Scroll down and enter your 3. "Customer Support Phone Number" and 4. "Customer Support Address", then click the "Continue" button.ĀĀ

You will be brought to a final review page to confirm the details you have entered for your provider.Ā

Scroll to the bottom of the window and click the blue "Submit" button to finish creating and connecting the provider's account.ĀĀ

Give the system a moment to load while the connection takes place.Ā Please do not close or refresh the page until it finishes loading. Once the connection is complete, the pop-up will display this message:

You can now close out this pop-up window. If you refresh the "Payment Processor" tab of the provider's dashboard, you will now see a message that says "Connected with Stripe".ĀĀ

Ā

Next Steps

If you would like your providers to be able to set up or connect their own Stripe account, click here.

To learn how to set up provider payments, click here.

To learn how to send out provider payments, click here.ĀĀ

Please note: Whenever sending out payments to your providers, you will always need to have funds inside your Stripe account otherwise payment will fail.Ā For example, if you owe someone $500.00, you will need to have at least $500.00 inside your connected Stripe account for funds to be transferred over to a provider.Ā If you are having issues, please click hereĀto learn more about how standard Stripe accounts work.

Ā

Related Articles

Setting up provider payments

Learn how to set up provider pay rates and reimbursements.

Connect a Stripe account with a customer profile

Learn how to connect an existing Stripe account with a customer account to access the saved cards.

Fix the "no such destination" error for provider Stripe payouts

Learn how to fix the "no such destination" error pop-up when you are trying to payout providers with Stripe.

How to set up Stripe as your payment processor

Learn how to connect your Stripe account(s) so you can save credit cards, process payments, and perform refunds from your BookingKoala account.

How to set up Stripe to pay providers

Learn how to set up and integrate Stripe Connect so you can send provider payments using your BookingKoala account.

Sending out provider payments

Learn how to send out, pause, and resume provider payments and where to locate payment logs.

Did you find this article helpful?
Yes
No
Previous

Connect a Stripe account with a customer profile

Next



Connect a Stripe account with a customer profile
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/connect-a-stripe-account-with-a-customer-profile

Connect a Stripe account with a customer profile
Learn how to connect an existing Stripe account with a customer account to access the saved cards.

Last updated on 27 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Connect a customer's Stripe ID with their BookingKoala account

Connecting Customer Stripe Accounts
First, you will need to locate the customer's Stripe ID from inside your Stripe dashboard.

Begin by logging into your dashboard at stripe.com/login. Then, search for the customer's name or email address in the top search bar.

Depending on the term you search, you may get several different types of results. Scroll down to the " Customer " section and click on the customer's name to view their profile.

Once on their profile, look for the " Details " section on the left side of the screen. The customer's stripe ID begins with " cus_ " and is normally located at the top of the section.

Click on the ID to copy it. Next, locate the customer's profile in your BookingKoala account by going to:

Customers > Customers

Search for the customer's information and then click on their name to be redirected to their dashboard.

Click on the " Profile " tab at the top of the page.

Scroll down until you see the " Connect to Stripe " section. Click the red " Disabled " button to enable the section.

If you use different Stripe accounts for each location, be sure to select the correct location from the " Location " drop-down menu. Then, paste the customer stripe ID into the " Stripe ID " box.

When finished, click the blue " Save " button to connect the customer's Stripe account. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know the account has been connected successfully.

You will now be able to use whichever payment methods are stored under the customer's Stripe account.

If you accidentally connect the wrong customer ID, you can easily delete it from beneath the " Billing Info " section and try again.

In addition to linking an individual account, you can also use the customer import feature to import customer stripe IDs along with the rest of their information.

Click here to learn more about how to import customers into your system.



How to connect a PayPal/Braintree account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-connect-your-paypal-account

How to connect a PayPal/Braintree account
Learn how to connect your PayPal account via Braintree to charge customers and collect payments.

Last updated on 01 Sept, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Create a PayPal/Braintree account
Ģ Flush out any test data
Ģ Connect PayPal as your payment processor

Creating a BrainTree account
First, you will have to create a BrainTree account, a service by PayPal.
For questions about setting up your Braintree account, please contact BrainTree Support for more information.

Flush Your Test Data
Next, if you haven't done so already, you will need to flush the test data out of the system. Every new BookingKoala account includes a few fake customers, providers, and bookings to better help you understand the system and test your settings. It is important to flush the test data before incorporating your payment processor, as any existing bookings with payment options may affect the accuracy of your revenue and earnings reports.

Click here to learn how to remove the test data from your account.

Find Your Paypal API Keys and Tokens
Click here to view a Braintree article on how to find and/or generate your PayPal/Braintree tokens. These will be used in the following step to link your account to BookingKoala.

Please note: Braintree allows you to use "test" details to test fake customer payments. If you would like to do this before connecting your account, make that you are in the "sandbox" to use test keys. When you are ready to start accepting real credit and debit card payments, switch to "production" to use your live keys instead.

Merchant ID2. Click on the gear icon in the top right corner of the page.
3. Select "Business" from the dropdown menu.
4. Your merchant ID will be located at the top of this page. Copy the ID for future use.

Public Key2. Click on the gear icon in the top right corner of the page.
3. Select "API" from the drop-down menu.
4. Scroll down to the "API Keys" section.
5. If you do not see any API keys, click the "Generate New API Key" button to create a new one. Once you've created this key, please copy it down to use during the connection process.

Private Key2. Click on the gear icon in the top right corner of the page.
3. Select "API" from the drop-down menu.
4. Scroll down to the "API Keys" section.
5. Click the "View" link in the "Private Key" column. This will reveal your private key in the column on the next page. Copy the private key for later use but be careful not to share it with anyone else.

Tokenization Key2. Click on the gear icon in the top right corner of the page.
3. Select "API" from the drop-down menu.
4. Scroll down to the "Tokenization Keys" section.
5. If you do not see tokenization keys, click the "Generate New Tokenization Key" button to create a new one. Once you've created this key, please copy it down to use for the connection process.

Connecting your BrainTree Account to BookingKoala
Once you have created your Braintree account and flushed any test data, you are now ready to connect the account to BookingKoala. To do this, you will need to capture and save all the necessary keys and tokens located in your Braintree account. To see which keys and tokens are required, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Admin

Scroll down to the "Connect Payment Gateways" section. To the right of "Enable or disable your payment processor" make sure the toggle button is set to "Enabled" (green). If it shows "Disabled", click the button and select "Yes" in the resulting pop-up window.

Next, click on Paypal on the left side of the page.

Here, paste your API keys and tokens into the corresponding boxes. Enter your merchant ID into the Merchant ID box, the public key into the Public Key box, the private key into the Private Key box, and the tokenization key into the Tokenization Key box.

Once each key has been entered, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page to connect your account.

Now that your BrainTree account is connected, you can begin accept credit and debit card payments from your customers. Each time a user is charged, that amount will be deposited into your BrainTree account.

From here you can decide which account funds will get deposited in. To connect your bank account(s) so funds will transfer from BrainTree to your desired bank account, please click here.

Linking Braintree to Multiple Locations
Unlike Square and Stripe, PayPal/BrainTree does NOT allow for multiple locations. This means you will nobe able to collect cards under different accounts per location. If this will be necessary for your business, we recommend using Stripe or Square instead.

Click here to learn how to create and connect a Stripe account.
Click here to learn how to create and connect a Square account.

Are you ready to start sending payments to providers?
Click here to visit our guide on connecting Paypal to send out provider payments and linking existing provider accounts for deposits.



For admin: Connecting provider PayPal accounts
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/connecting-provider-paypal-accounts

For admin: Connecting provider PayPal accounts
Learn how to connect provider PayPal accounts so you can easily transfer payments.

Last updated on 27 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to connect your provider's PayPal accounts

Getting Started
First, you as the merchant will have to create a PayPal account. Make sure you are creating a business account when you are signing up.

Also, be sure to activate and confirm the account, otherwise, Paypal will not allow you to send out payments.

Connect Your Paypal Account
Next, you'll need to connect your PayPal account so you can charge and collect customer payments. You will do this by going to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Admin

Click here to visit our guide on how to connect your PayPal/Braintree account to Bookingkoala. Then, proceed to the next step.

Request an API Signature and Credentials
To payout providers from your PayPal account, you will need to request an API signature and certificate credentials from your PayPal dashboard.

To find all the information needed to connect your account, please follow the instructions in this PayPal article.

The keys and IDs that you will request/generate are:
Ģ Client ID
Ģ Secret Key
Ģ API Username
Ģ API Password
Ģ Signature

If you have any difficulties with finding or generating your keys and credentials, click here to contact PayPal Support.

Connect Paypal for Providers to BookingKoala
Once you have gathered your IDs and keys, open your BookingKoala admin dashboard and go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Admin

Scroll down to the second section where it says, " Are you ready to connect your provider's payment accounts? " and toggle the button to " Enabled ".

Once you've entered the information in each of the above boxes, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

You will see a green system alert in the top right corner of the page letting you know the update has been successful. Your PayPal account is now connected!

Whenever sending out payments to your providers, you will always need to have funds inside that PayPal account. Otherwise, the payment will fail.

For example, if you owe someone $250.00, you will need to have at least $250.00 inside the connected PayPal account for funds to be transferred over to a provider.

Connecting Provider PayPal Accounts
Now that your PayPal account is connected to BookingKoala, you can use it to pay your providers. Each new provider you add to the system will need a PayPal account so funds can be transferred from your account to theirs.

If a provider doesn't have an account, they will need to create a new PayPal account. They can make a personal or a business account.

Once their account has been generated and verified, you can connect it by going to:

Providers > [Provider]

You will be redirected to the provider's dashboard. Click on the " Payment Processor " tab near the right side of the page.

Enter the provider's Paypal email address into the box beneath " Paypal Email ID ". Please be sure the email you are connecting to their profile is the same email address the provider used to sign up/log in with their PayPal account. Then, click the green " Connect " button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, confirming that the account has been connected successfully. You are now connected with the provider's account and will be able to send funds to them from the Provider Payments section.

The " Connect " button will have changed into an " Update " button.

Make sure you hit the green " Connect " button which then will turn to " Update " after the accounts are connected.

If the provider ever gets a new PayPal account, you can always update that information by entering their new email address into the box and clicking "Update".



How to connect a Square account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-connect-your-square-account

How to connect a Square account
Learn how to connect your Square account(s) to charge customers and collect payments.

Last updated on 31 Jul, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Create a Square account
Ģ Flush out any test data
Ģ Connect Square as your payment processor
Ģ Connect multiple square accounts per location

Create a Square Account
First, you will need to create a Square account if you do not have one already.

For questions about how to set up your Square account, please contact Square Support for more information.

Once you've created your account, please be sure you have verified your identity so you can begin accepting payments. You can check if your account was verified during the setup process once you reach your Square Dashboard.

To check, click "Activate your account to take payments" just below where it says "Welcome to Square". There should be a blue checkmark to the right of "Verify your Identity".

If there isn't a blue check next to "Verify Your Identity", click the blue text to complete the verification process. You can also click this link to verify your account to accept payments.

Create a Square Application
Next, click here to open your Square Developer dashboard. Click the blue "Get Started" button at the center of the page.

Then, click the blue + icon to begin building your first application.

A pop-up window will appear. Create a name for the application and check the box next to "I agree to the Square Developer Terms of Service". Then click the blue "Save" button.

Next, click the white "Open" button to view the application's settings and switch to the "Production" tab to the right of "Sandbox".

Beneath the "Credentials" section, you will see an application ID and an access token. You will copy both of these codes to connect your Square account to BookingKoala.

Flush Your test data
Next, if you haven't done so already, you will need to flush the test data out of the system. Every new BookingKoala account includes a few fake customers, providers, and bookings to better help you understand the system and test your settings. It is important to flush the test data before incorporating your payment processor, as any existing bookings with payment options may affect the accuracy of your revenue and earnings reports.

Click here to learn how to remove the test data from your account.

Connect Your Square Account to BookingKoala
To connect your Square account, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Admin

Scroll down to the Connect Payment Gateways section at bottom of the page. Next to the option "Enable or disable your payment processor", click the red "Disabled" button. A pop-up window will appear, click Yes to continue.

Next, click on the Square tab from the side panel.

Copy the Application ID from your Square dashboard and paste it into the box labeled "Application ID". Next, copy the Acces Token and paste it into the box labeled "Secret Key".

If you do not want to connect more than one square account, click the blue "Save" button to finish connecting your account.

Square Accounts for Multiple Locations
If you service multiple locations, you will also see a blue "Get Locations" button below the Application ID and Secret Key boxes. This option allows you to link a specific Square application per location. You may use multiple square accounts for tax purposes or to separate your income.

If you want to set up different square accounts for each location, click the "Get Locations" button and the system will pull all locations you have created in you booking form(s).

Select which location you'd like to use this application for and then click the blue "Save" button.

Once you've saved your Square keys in the Admin Store Options tab, you will need to make sure your payment processor is linked to your locations.

If you have not set up your locations yet, please check out the article Setting Up Locations for Every Form.

To edit your locations, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Locations

Next, select the Options menu next to your location and click Edit.

Click the blue Next button on the bottom of the first page to proceed to the second page where it says Setup Square account.

If you have one Square account that you will use for all of your payment processing, make sure "No, Use Default" has been selected. Anyone who books within this location will have their card information stored inside the stripe account you just connected in the Store Options settings.

If you have multiple stripe accounts, you can select the "Custom" option to set up which location is associated with each account.

Some businesses operate with multiple Square accounts using one for each location. For example, let's say you have a location in Chicago and another in San Diego. If a client books for the San Diego location, their cards will be stored in San Diego Square only. If the same customer creates a new booking in Chicago, the card will be saved into the Chicago Square account separately.

Once you select "Custom", you will see the question, "Do you want to use the same square application keys (as on admin settings)?" appear below. If you want to use the same Square account you just connected, select "Yes". Then click the blue "Update" button at the bottom right corner of the page.

If you'd like to use a different Square application for the location, select "No" and then enter the application ID and secret key/access ID into the boxes below. Then click the blue "Update" button.

Once this is all set up, you will be able to collect credit and debit cards from customers.

Each time a user is charged the amount will be deposited into your Square account. From there you can decide where funds get deposited. To connect your bank accounts so funds go from Square to your desired bank account, please click here.



Quickbooks overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/quickbooks-overview

Quickbooks overview
Learn how to connect Quickbooks and what you can export from your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 05 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to connect your Quickbooks account to BookingKoala
Ģ What information you are able to sync once your accounts are connected

How do I connect Quickbooks?
To connect your QuickBooks account to Bookingkoala, please go to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations

Scroll down to the "Quickbooks" section and click the blue "Click Here" button.

You will be redirected to a "QuickBooks Integration" page. Click the blue "Authorize" button at the center of the screen.

If you are logged in already, you will see a message that shows "Connecting [Business Name] to BookingKoala." Click the green "Connect" button at the bottom left corner of the page.

If you are not logged in, you will be redirected to a login page. Enter your login credentials and click the blue "Sign In" button.

Then, click the green "Connect" button on the following page. Once you click "Connect", you will be redirected back to the "QuickBooks Integration" page in Bookingkoala.

Next, select which QuickBooks accounts you would like to use to sync booking charges and refunds, and then for gift card purchases. Use the drop-down menus to select the account(s).

Once you've made your selections, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner, letting you know that the account has been connected successfully.

What can I use Quickbooks for in my BookingKoala account?
Once you've connected your accounts, you can use Quickbooks to perform a bulk sync your booking charges, refunds, and gift card purchases.

When you perform this action:
Ģ A sales receipt will be created inside your QuickBooks account for all cash/check and debit/credit transactions.
Ģ A refund receipt will be generated for all debit/credit card refunds that occurred during the specified date range.
Ģ All new customers who have not been synced to your Quickbooks account yet will have a customer QuickBooks account generated and linked to your account.

To bulk sync your accounts, go to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations > Quickbooks

Scroll down to the "Quickbooks" section and click the blue "Click Here" button.

You will be redirected to the "Quickbooks Integration" page. Scroll down until you are in the "Sync transactions to Quickbooks" section and click on the blue "Sync to Quickbooks" button.

A "Sync to Quickbooks" pop-up will appear. Click the calendar icon to select the dates for the transactions you would like to sync to your account.

Then, check the box that says, "I have read all the text above and confirm that I want to continue and sync to QuickBooks" and click the blue "Sync to Quickbooks" button.

You will see a green system notification in the top-right corner, letting you know your sync has begun and may take some time before it is complete.

To check if the sync has been completed, you can go to: Logs > Systems

Under the logs, you will see a green "Completed" label added under the Activity column once the sync has finished.

Click the eye icon to view the details of the transfer.



Zapier integration
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/zapier-integration

Zapier integration
Learn how to use Zapier to integrate your BookingKoala account with 3000+ apps, including Mailchimp, Quickbooks, Google Calendar, and more.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is Zapier
Ģ How to set up a Zapier account
Ģ How to connect your Zapier account to BookingKoala

What is Zapier?
Zapier is a product that helps automate repetitive tasks between two or more apps. Zapier uses automated workflows to identify when a specific event has occurred and trigger one or more actions. These automated workflows are called " Zaps ".

Zaps are very helpful for tasks you need to do frequently, like sending out reminders to your team to complete a task, or regular transfer of information from one app to another, like updating a spreadsheet or calendar.

Once you integrate Zapier with your BookingKoala account, the system executes Zaps on specific operations, like add booking, cancellation, reschedule, etc, and performs the action on the connected app.

We have integrated the following triggers with Zapier for BookingKoala:
117 New Booking
118 Booking Updated
119 Booking Cancelled
120 Booking Completed
121 Booking Charged
122 New Customer
123 Customer Updated
124 New Quote
125 New Rating
126 New Provider
127 Update Provider
128 Delete Provider
129 Provider Payout
130 Card Hold
131 Booking Deleted
132 Booking Charge Declined

For example, you can set up a Zap to add customer details to your Mailchimp account whenever a new booking has been added to the system. Then, when the booking has been charged, another Zap can sync the data to your Quickbooks account. There are innumerable ways to use Zapier to automate tasks for your business.

How to set up a Zapier account
Go to Zapier's sign-up page and start by clicking a "Sign up with Google/Facebook/Microsoft" button, or entering your name and email and clicking the orange " Sign Up " button.

Next, create a password for your account and click the " Sign Up " button.

There is an optional setup screen that will appear next.

You can enter more specific information about your role and business size, and then select which apps you regularly use for personalized suggestions (including BookingKoala). Click the blue " Finish Setup " button to complete the account setup.

You can also skip this step by clicking the grey " Skip " button at the bottom of the screen. You will be brought to the main dashboard.

Connecting Your Zapier Account
To connect your Zapier account to Bookingkoala, go to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations

Scroll down to the Zapier box and click the blue " Click Here " button.

Next, click on the red " Disabled " button to switch it to " Enabled ". You will see a green system notification in the top right corner letting you know that the Zapier app has been enabled successfully.

Next, click the blue " Generate API Key " button. This will create a unique key for you to connect your BookingKoala account with Zapier.

Once the API key has been generated, use the blue Copy button to copy the code, and then click the blue " Click Here " link just below the API key box. This will open a new tab and bring you to the set-up page.

Click the blue " Connect BookingKoala to 4000+ apps " button at the center of the page. You will be brought to a Zap creation page. To connect your Zapier account to BookingKoala, you will need to begin setting up a new zap so you can link the accounts.

First, select a Trigger Event from the drop-down menu. The options you have are:
133 New Booking
134 Booking Updated
135 Booking Cancelled
136 Booking Completed
137 Booking Charged
138 New Customer
139 Customer Updated
140 New Quote
141 New Rating
142 New Provider
143 Update Provider
144 Delete Provider
145 Provider Payout
146 Card Hold
147 Booking Deleted
148 Booking Charge Declined

Click the blue " Continue " button after you have selected a trigger.

149 Enter the API key you copied from BookingKoala into the first box.
150 Enter your account's subdomain into the second box.

Click the red " Yes, Continue " button to proceed. Your BookingKoala account will now be selected in the " Choose Account " section.

Finally, you will want to test the integration in the Test Trigger section to ensure that everything is connected properly. Click the blue " test trigger " button and Zapier will pull a recent event of that type to show as an example.

Once the system returns the details, check to make sure it matches the information in your BookingKoala account. Click the blue " Continue " button to save this trigger.

A green checkmark will be added to the corner of your icon. This shows that BookingKoala has been successfully connected with Zapier.

At this point, you can continue on to create your first Zap by clicking the blue plus sign icon just below the trigger box.

For a detailed guide to completing and enabling our first zap, click here.

Details Synced to Zapier
The following tables contain each detail that is synced to Zapier. The column on the right shows the detail's name and the column on the left shows an example.

Customer
id1234first_nameJohnlast_nameDoecompany_nameCleaning with Meaningprimary_emailjohn_doe@example.comgendermaleprimary_phone_number1234567890addressChicago Avenuezipcode/postal code60601cityMinneapolisstateMinnesotaapt25AnoteThis is a test note for the customer.is_new0/1tags[Onetime, Recurring, Important]Bookings
id1001industryHome CleaningformForm 1location_typeService Area/Merchant LocationlocationChicagozipcode/postal code60601service_categoryFlat Rate Serviceis_service_hourlyyes/noservice_hourly_value120frequencyEvery 4 weeksoccurrenceonetime/recurringfrequency_repeat_slugevery_4_weekscreated_on1619674829booking_date2021-04-16arrival_time15:00:00dayFridaytip$10.30parking$5.00bonus$7.00provider_ids[3, 4]provider_emailtest_provider@example.comprovider_emails[test_provider@example.com, test_provider2@example.com]customer_id544customer_nameJohn Doecustomer_first_nameJohncustomer_last_nameDoecustomer_emailjohn_doe@example.comcustomer_phone1234567890tags[Onetime, Recurring, Important]addressChicago AvenuecityMinneapolisaddress_zipcode/postal code60601stateMinnesotaapt25Akey_infoat_home/hiddenkey_notePlease be sure to lock the doors when you leave!key_with_providertrue/falsealert_charge_nowtrue/falsealert_charge_textalert! you are about to charge this bookingalert_reminder_admintrue/falseadmin_email_reminder_date2021-04-16admin_email_reminder_day_before2admin_email_reminder_hours_before4admin_email_reminder_messageTest reminder messagecoupon$20.00gift_card$100.00referral_discount$50.00referral_amount$20.00adjusted_price$150.50adjusted_time120payment_methodexisting_credit_card new_credit_card cashspecial_notesThis is a test special note.provider_notePlease check all stuff correctly after cleaning.booking_noteTake extra care with this booking.service_total$115.00expedited_amount$50.00frequency_discount_amount$10.00discounted_total$155booking_tax$12.30service_fee$10.00total$177.30rating4.5reviewYou did an awesome job!review_date1619674829booking_source"Staff" if booking is added from admin dashboard by staff member"Admin" if booking is added by admin"Customer" if booking is added by customer"Recurring Booking - Automatic booking added by scheduler" if booking is added by system on booking completion in a recurring scheduleextra_tip$0price_adjustment_noteThis is a test price adjustment note.time_adjustment_noteThis is a test time adjustment note.note_from_providerThis is a test note from provider.bonus_reasonThis is a test bonus note.created_by10cancelled_byAdmin / Staff / Customer / Booking - Automatic booking cancelled by systemcancellation_commentsTest comments for cancellationstatuscompleted / charged / cancelled / declined / unassigned / deleted / upcomingprovider_pay$20additional_charge$20booking_iso_date_time2024-05-27T08:00card_last4_digits4242customer_company_nameTest Companyis_first0 / 1Canceled Booking
|All fields from booking trigger + |
| --- | --- |
|canceled_bookings |single/all |
|cancellation_reason |Not at home |

Provider
id1234first_nameLisalast_nameBallcompany_nameCleaning with Meaningprimary_emaillisa_ball@example.comgenderfemaleprimary_phone_number1234567890addressChicago Avenuezipcode/postal code60601cityMinneapolisstateMinnesotaapt25AnoteThis is a test note for the provider.tags[Onetime, Recurring, Important]speednewcategoryIC / W2team_names[Team1, Team2]provider_typeSingle / Teamstatusactivatedalt_phone_number123456789priority10Provider Payout
provider_id1234date_sent2023-03-27nameLisa Ballemail_idlisa_ball@example.comamount$20payment_dates2023-03-27 To 2023-03-28tags[Test, Important]adjusted_amount$20adjustment_reasonTest adjustment reasonpayment_methodcash_checkbookings101, 102is_adjustedtrue / false

Creating Zaps in Zapier
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/creating-zaps-in-zapier

Creating Zaps in Zapier
Learn how to create automated workflows in Zapier to automate tasks relating to your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 27 Jan, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to create a new "Zap" in Zapier

Before You Begin
To create automated workflows, or "Zaps", you must have a Zapier account that is linked to BookingKoala.
If you do not have a Zapier account, or it has not been connected to BookingKoala yet, click here to learn more.

Setting Up Your First Zap
As part of the Zapier integration process, you have already started to create your first Zap. You have already added a trigger to this Zap when connecting your account.

Locating Your Incomplete ZapIf you have logged out or navigated away from the "Add New Zap" page after connecting your account, log back in and select "Zaps" from the menu on the left.
Your Zap will be displayed under the "Home" section. Click the three dots on the right and select "View" to open.
You will find yourself back on the "Add New Zap" page.

Adding an ActionTo add an action to the Zap, click the blue "plus sign" icon below the trigger box and an action box will be added.
Use the search bar to look up the app where you'd like the action to take place, or click the name of the app listed below.
Next, select an Action Event. This is what is performed when the Zap is triggered. Action events depend on the functionality of the app you have selected.
For example, if you are creating a Zap to automatically add new bookings to your Google Calendar, you could select "Create Detailed Event" as the action event.
Once you've selected the action event, click "Continue".
A pop-up window will appear where you can enter your login credentials for that app. Some apps, like Google, may ask for permission before you can connect them. Click "Allow" to proceed.
Once logged in, the account will be displayed under the Choose Account section. Click the blue "Continue" button to proceed.

Setting Up the ActionThe final step is to set up your action. The options for your action will depend on which trigger you have selected and the app performing the action.
Any box that has "(required)" at the top right corner must have a text entered or a value selected.
To insert a value into a field, click inside the box. If the box says "Enter text or insert data..." you can manually type in the value, or select it from a list of existing values.
If a box says "Choose value...", you can select a value supplied by Zapier, or select a Custom value from BookingKoala.
Once you have entered your values, click the blue "Continue" button at the bottom of the page.
The final step is to test your action to make sure it is working properly. Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the white "Test & Review" button on the left.
If the Zap was set up correctly, you will see a "Test was successful!" message at the top of this section. You can open the other app to check that the action indeed took place.

Troubleshooting Your ZapIf something was configured incorrectly, you will see a red message letting you know that the action could not be carried out. Any values contributing to the error will be displayed in the box below.
For more information on how to troubleshoot the error, click the black "Troubleshoot Error" button on the right.
To fix the error, go back to the "Set Up Action" tab and locate which field is causing the issue. Once you've made your adjustments, click the blue "Continue" button at the bottom of the page.
You will be brought to the Test Action section again. Scroll to the bottom and click the white "Retest Action" button.
Repeat this process until it says "Test was successful!" at the top of the section.

Enabling Your ZapOnce everything has been set up and you are ready to automate this workflow, click the blue "Turn on Zap" button.
A pop-up window will let you know that the zap has been turned on.
This action will now be performed automatically whenever the event happens in your BookingKoala account.

Details Synced to Zapier
The following tables contain each value that is synced to Zapier. The column on the right shows the value's name and the column on the left shows an example of the value type.

Customer
id1234first_nameJohnlast_nameDoecompany_nameCleaning with Meaningprimary_emailjohn_doe@example.comgendermaleprimary_phone_number1234567890addressChicago Avenuezipcode/postal code60601cityMinneapolisstateMinnesotaapt25AnoteThis is a test note for the customer.is_new0/1tags[Onetime, Recurring, Important]Bookings
id1001industryHome CleaningformForm 1location_typeService Area/Merchant LocationlocationChicagozipcode/postal code60601service_categoryFlat Rate Serviceis_service_hourlyyes/noservice_hourly_value120frequencyEvery 4 weeksoccurrenceonetime/recurringfrequency_repeat_slugevery_4_weekscreated_on1619674829booking_date2021-04-16arrival_time15:00:00dayFridaytip$10.30parking$5.00bonus$7.00provider_ids[3, 4]provider_emailtest_provider@example.comprovider_emails[test_provider@example.com, test_provider2@example.com]customer_id544customer_nameJohn Doecustomer_first_nameJohncustomer_last_nameDoecustomer_emailjohn_doe@example.comcustomer_phone1234567890tags[Onetime, Recurring, Important]addressChicago AvenuecityMinneapolisaddress_zipcode/postal code60601stateMinnesotaapt25Akey_infoat_home/hiddenkey_notePlease be sure to lock the doors when you leave.key_with_providertrue/falsealert_charge_nowtrue/falsealert_charge_textalert! you are about to charge this bookingalert_reminder_admintrue/falseadmin_email_reminder_date2021-04-16admin_email_reminder_day_before2admin_email_reminder_hours_before4admin_email_reminder_messageTest reminder messagecoupon$20.00gift_card$100.00referral_discount$50.00referral_amount$20.00adjusted_price$150.50adjusted_time120payment_methodexisting_credit_card, new_credit_card, cashspecial_notesThis is a test special note.provider_notePlease check all stuff correctly after cleaning.booking_noteTake extra care with this booking.service_total$115.00expedited_amount$50.00frequency_discount_amount$10.00discounted_total$155booking_tax$12.30service_fee$10.00total$177.30rating4.5reviewYou did an awesome job!review_date1619674829Canceled Booking
All fields from booking trigger +canceled_bookingssingle/allcancellation_reasonNot at home

Google Analytics and adding tracking codes
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/google-analytics

Google Analytics and adding tracking codes
Learn how to sign up for Google Analytics, how to configure your account, where to place your universal tracking code, and how to install site tags to track specific pages.

Last updated on 06 Mar, 2026

The purpose of this article is to help you understand how to:
Ģ Create and set up a Google Analytics account
Ģ Connect your Google Analytics account to BookingKoala
Ģ Install tracking codes on specific pages/forms

Getting started
The setup process involves using your Google Analytics account. If you already use Google products, such as Gmail or Google Ads, then you can use the same account for Google Analytics.

If you have a Google Analytics account already, skip this first section and proceed to the section called " Create a New Property in Google Analytics ".

If you don't already have an account for a Google product, first create a Google account. You don't have to use the Gmail account for anything other than signing in and out of Google Analytics.

Once you have a Google account, continue with the instructions below to create a Google Analytics account .

Create a Google Analytics Account

Then, go to this article and click the blue " Start for Free " button.

151 Click on the blue " Start Measuring " button to continue with creating your account.
152 Enter an Account Name and select preferences if you want to share your account data with Google. Then, click " Next ".
153 Enter a Property Name . A "property" represents your business's web or app data. Select your Reporting Time Zone and Currency.
154 Below this section, click the blue " Show Advanced Options " link.
155 Next to " Create a Universal Analytics property ", toggle the button to on . Enter your website URL and check the button next to " Create both a Google Analytics 4 and a Universal Analytics property " and the box next to " Enable enhanced measurement for Google Analytics 4 property ". Then, click the blue " Next " button.
156 Select your Industry Category from the drop-down menu, your Business Size , and check off the boxes next to how you are looking to use Google Analytics (optional). Then, click the blue " Create " button at the bottom of the page.
157 Check the box next to " I also accept the Data Processing Terms as required by GDPR " and click the " I accept " button at the bottom of the window.
158 Please allow the page to load while your account is being generated. Do not refresh the page until you see a " Success " message at the top of the screen. You will then be brought into your account dashboard.

Create a New Property in Google Analytics

If you already have a Google Analytics account, you will need to create a new property .

In your Google Analytics Dashboard , click on the "Admin" icon at the bottom left corner of the side menu. Then click the blue " Create Property " button at the top center of the page.

159 Enter a Property Name . A "property" represents your business's web or app data. Select your Reporting Time Zone and Currency.
160 Below this section, click the blue " Show Advanced Options " link.
161 Next to " Create a Universal Analytics property ", toggle the button to on . Enter your website URL and check the button next to " Create both a Google Analytics 4 and a Universal Analytics property " and the box next to " Enable enhanced measurement for Google Analytics 4 property ". Then, click the blue " Next " button.
162 Select your Industry Category from the drop-down menu, your Business Size , and check off the boxes next to how you are looking to use Google Analytics (optional). Then, click the blue " Create " button at the bottom of the page.

Copy the Universal ID

Next, you will need to copy the measurement ID, or " Universal ID " so you can connect your Google Analytics account to BookingKoala. This is located in the top right corner of the Web Stream Details page that popped up once you added your new property.

To find this pop-up again, click on the data stream listed under the " Data Streams " section in the Admin column.

Click the " Copy " icon next to your measurement ID. This is located in the top right corner of the pop-up window and will always start with " G- ".

Connect Your Google Analytics Account

To connect your Google Analytics Account to BookingKoala, you will use the universal tracking code you just copied. In BookingKoala, go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange " Customize Theme " button to open the website/theme builder.

Inside the website builder, click on " Settings " in the topmost menu. This will open a menu on the left of the page.

Switch into the " Tracking & Conversion " tab and paste the code into the box that says " Google Analytics Tracking ID ".

Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the menu to save the code to your site. Then, click the blue " Save & Publish " button at the top right corner of the screen. This will push the tracking code live.

Please note: It can take up to 48 hours for tracking to sync data to your Google Analytics account.

Google Analytics for Embedded Forms
If you have embedded BookingKoala forms onto your website through a third-party builder like Wix, WordPress, Squarespace, etc., follow the instructions above to connect your Universal ID .

Copy the Global Site Tag

Then, you will need to add tracking codes, called " global site tags ", to start tracking each page you have embedded. To locate your global site tag in Google Analytics, go to:

Admin > Data Streams

Click on your Data Stream to open the Web Stream Details page. Scroll down to the " Tagging Instructions " box and click the arrow to expand this section.

Click the " copy " icon to copy the global site tag from the box.

Add Site Tags to Your Pages

Next, open your BookingKoala account and go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange " Customize Theme " button to open the website/theme builder.

Select the page you want to edit from the top center Page Menu or proceed with the next steps to add a tracking code to the " Home " page.

Next, click on the grey " Page Settings " button near the top right corner of the screen.

Switch into the " Google Analytics " tab and paste the code into the box that says "Google Analytics Tracking code".

Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the menu to save the code to your site. Then, click the blue " Save & Publish " button at the top right corner of the screen. This will push the tracking code live.

Please note: It can take up to 48 hours for tracking to sync data to your Google Analytics account.



Google Adwords
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/google-adwords

Google Adwords
Learn how to sign up for Google Adwords and add your tracking codes in BookingKoala.

Last updated on 27 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How to set up Google AdWords
Ģ How to install the codes in your BookingKoala account

Getting Started
Before you begin, you will need a Google account in order to start using Google AdWords.  If you don't already have an account for a Google product, you can click here to create a Google Account.

Next, we recommend connecting and linking a Google Analytics account to your BookingKoala account to get a better picture of your ad performance. Click here to set up your Google Analytics account.

Once your account has been created, you will need to create a Google AdWords account. Click here to visit the Google Ads page to begin the process.

Once you are on the Overview page, click either of the blue " Start Now " buttons to set up your Google AdWords account.

Next, click the " New Google Ads Account " link to create a new account.

Next, select your main advertising goal from the options provided and click the blue " Next " button.

Next, enter your business name and then click the blue " Next " button.

Next, enter the URL of the page you'd like to direct people to after they click your ad, and then click the blue " Next " button.

Give the system a moment to check your site and gather information about your business.  Once finished, you will see a preview of the page you have entered on both mobile and desktop views .

If the page is displaying correctly, click the blue " Next " button to proceed.

Next, you will write your first ad.  A preview of the ad will be displayed on the right side of the page.

If you'd like to include a call button in your ad, check the box next to " Show a call button in your ad " and enter the country and phone number in the boxes below.  Then, click the blue " Next " button.

Next, you will add keyword themes to match your ad to searches.  Click the blue " New Keyword Theme " link to add a different keyword. Your selected keywords will display in the top section, with Google's suggestions listed in the second section.  Click the suggested keyword themes to add them to your list.  Once finished, click the blue " Next " button.

Next, select " Advertise near an address " or " Advertise in specific zip codes, cities, or regions " to determine where your ad will be displayed. Enter the address, zip code, or region in the box below.  Click the blue " Next " button to proceed to the next step.

Next, set a budget for your ad.  You can pick " Select a budget option " to view Google's standard options or select " Enter your own budget " to create a custom budget.

Once you click the " Next " button, you can review all of your ad's details and make changes if necessary.

Finally, enter your payment information and select the blue " Submit " button at the bottom of the page to finish setting up your account.

Once submitted, you will be redirected to your Google Ads dashboard.

Setting Up Your Google Ads Conversion Tracking
To set up Google Ads conversion tracking, you need to create a conversion action, install the global site tag, and then add the event snippet. If youÆre tracking purchases, then you also need to edit the event snippet to adjust the value of the conversion based on the purchase amount.  Please follow the instructions below to set up your conversion and purchase tracking.

Step 1: Create a conversion action in Google Ads

To set up Google Ads conversion tracking, follow the Google Ads instructions for creating a conversion action.

163 Click the Tools and Settings icon near the top right corner of the page. Select " Measurement ", then " Conversions " from the drop-down menu.
164 Click the blue " New conversion action " button at the top of the " Summary " page.
165 Click the " Website " block.
166 Enter your website URL and click the blue " Scan " link to the right of the box.
167 Next, you will create your conversion action. There are two different ways to go about this.

167.1 Set up a conversion with a URL - Use this method if you want to measure visits to certain pages of your website, like a thank-you page, email sign-up confirmation page, or form completion page
167.2 Set up a conversion manually - Use this method if you want to use custom features like dynamic values and transaction ID, or if you want to count conversions when users click on links or buttons on your website.  

167.3    Click here to view Google Ad's instructions for how to set up conversions using each method (at the bottom of Step 1).

The most common kind of conversion action is tracking purchases .  To set up tracking purchases, click the blue " Add a Conversion Action Manually " link at the bottom of the page.

A menu will appear on the right side of the screen.  For the "Goal and Action Optimization " section, select " Purchase ".  Enter a name for the conversion, and then select " Use different values for each conversion" under the " Value " section.

Below, select how many conversions to count per click under the " Count " section.  Select " Every " to count every purchase as a conversion.   At the bottom of the menu, you can set your conversion windows to record conversions within a certain time frame after clicking your add.

Once you are finished, click the blue " Done " button at the bottom left corner of the side menu.

Step 2: Install the global site tag

After you create a conversion action, you will need to install the global site tag in your BookingKoala account.

168 When you get to the Tag Setup step in Google Ads, click Install the tag yourself .
169 Make sure " HTML " is selected at the top of this section.  In the Global site tag section, select whichever option applies to your tag. Your selection will influence the tag's code.
170 Copy your global site tag from the box below.
171 In another browser window, open your BookingKoala admin dashboard.

171.1 Go to: Settings > Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes
171.2 Click on the orange Customize Theme button.
171.3 Next, click on the white Settings tab at the top of the page.  A side menu will appear on the left.
171.4 Click on the " Tracking and Conversion " tab.
171.5 Scroll down to the Header Code section and paste in your global site tag into the box below.
171.6 Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the side menu.
171.7 Finally, click the blue " Save and Publish " button in the top right-hand corner of the page to push your updates live.

Step 3: Install the event snippet

After you have installed the global site tag, you will need to add the event snippet to your "thank you" page (or any other page where the final event will be recorded). The event snippet tracks a conversion any time somebody clicks one of your ads and then later reaches the page the event occurs on.

For example, if you are tracking a successful booking completion, you would paste the event snippet into your "thank you" page, as this is the page where the final event occurs (users are redirected here after saving a booking).

Back in Google Ads, scroll down past the Global Site Tag section until you see the " Event Snippet ".

172 Select " Page load" from the options provided.
173 Copy the event snippet code.
174 Back in your BookingKoala dashboard, go to Settings > Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes > Customize Theme.
175 Click the Page menu at the top center of the page and select the " Thank You" page (or any other page where the event is to occur).
176 A side menu will appear on the left.  Click on the 3 vertical dot icon next to the "thank you"/action page and select "Settings".
177 A pop-up will appear. Click on the Header Code tab, paste your global site tag into the box below, and then click the blue " Save " button.
178 Click the blue " Save and Publish " button in the top right-hand corner of the page.
179 Next, copy the global site tag used in the previous step and add this tag above the event snippet in the header section.  

180 You can copy the global site tag from the Google Ads dashboard or go click on Settings > Tracking and Conversion and copy it from the " Header code " section.
181 Click the blue " Save " button in the pop-up, and then " Save & Publish " at the top right corner of the page.

4. Additional Tips for Modifying the Event Snippet

If a customer reloads the page, Google Ads may record a duplicate conversion.  To prevent duplicate conversions, you can add tags before and after the event snippet so that it triggers only once per customer.

182 To add these tags, click on the Page menu in the top center of the page and select your " Thank You "/action page.
183 In the left side menu, click on the three dots icon next to the page you are updating and select " Settings ".
184 Click on the " Header Code " tab in the following pop-up and expand the text section by dragging the bottom right corner downward.
185 On the line before the event snippet , paste: {% if first_time_accessed %}
186 On the line after the event snippet , paste: {% endif %}
187 Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the pop-up window, then " Save & Publish " to update your website.

The default currency for Google Ads is USD .  If you don't sell in US dollars, you can replace " USD " in the event snippet to reflect the currency selected for your Google Ads account.

188 To update the event snipped, click on the Page menu in the top center of the page and select your " Thank You "/action page.
189 In the left side menu, click on the three dots icon next to the page you are updating and select " Settings ".
190 Click on the " Header Code " tab in the following pop-up and expand the text section by dragging the bottom right corner downward.
191 Use Control + F or Command + F to locate the term " USD " in the event snippet.
192 Replace " USD " with: {{ currency }}
193 Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the pop-up window, then " Save & Publish " to update your website.

What if I have embedded forms on a different site builder like WordPress, Wix, etc?
If you have embedded the BookingKoala forms onto a third-party website, you will still need to add the global site tag and event snippet in the BookingKoala pages as previously instructed.

In addition, you will also need to add the global site tag to your website builder's header/header code section .

Here are instructions on how to update your website header for some of the most common website builders our clients use:

Ģ WordPress
Ģ Wix
Ģ Squarespace
Ģ GoDaddy
Ģ Weebly
Ģ Shopify

If you do not see your website builder listed here, please please email us at support@bookingkoala.com so we can better assist you.



Activate Google sign up/log in
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/activate-google-sign-up-log-in

Activate Google sign up/log in
Learn how to set up options for customers to create an account or log in using their Google accounts.

Last updated on 16 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How to set up Google as a method of logging in for customers

Log In/Sign Up Through Google
When a new customer creates an account with your business, you can offer the option for them to sign up with an existing Google account.  This simplifies the account creation process for users who prefer to use a connected account instead of creating a new account.

Once they have created an account using the Sign Up With Google button, they can log in using the same buttons on the " Sign In " page.

In order to activate this button, you will need to activate API keys for Google.

Activating Your Google API
Before You Begin

This setup process involves the Google Cloud Console . If you haven't used it before, check out this link (https://cloud.google.com/cloud-console) to get more information and try it for free.

Create a New Project

To enable sign-in with Google, you must also select or create a new project . If you are logged into your Google account already, click this link (https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate) to create a new project.

Enter a name for the project, then click the blue " Create " button.  You will be brought to the project dashboard.

From the left side menu, select " APIs & Services " and click on " Dashboard ".

On the APIs & Services Dashboard, select " OAuth consent screen" from the left side menu.  Select " External " for the User Type , and then click the blue " Create " button.

Fill out the required details that have a red asterisk next to them.  Enter your business or website name for the App Name and select a User Support Email . You can also upload your logo to display when customers view the consent screen.

Fill out the app domain information and provide links to your home page , privacy policy page , and terms of service page (optional).

Next, click the " Add Domain " button to add your Authorized Domains .  Your authorized domain will be bookingkoala.com , as this domain hosts your Bookingkoala website. If you use a custom domain , please add that domain here as well.

In the example below, the custom domain is "demo2.com".

Next, add your Contact Email Address(es) , then click " Save and Continue ".

On the next page, click " Save and Continue " to proceed to the next page.

Again, click " Save and Continue " and proceed to the next page.

You will be brought to the Summary page.  Click the Back to Dashboard button a the bottom of the page.  Next, click the "Publish App" button below where it says Publishing Status .

A pop-up window will ask if you are ready to push to production. Click " Confirm " to proceed.

Connecting Your Google Account

Back in your BookingKoala dashboard, go to:

Settings > General > Apps & Integrations

Scroll down to the Google box and click the blue " Enable " button.  A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to enable it. Click " Yes " to proceed.

Next, click on the grey " Incomplete " button to the right of the " Disable " button.

A pop-up window will appear. Click the blue " Click here " link toward the bottom of the window.

This link will take you to a set-up guide for Google Sign-In. Click the blue "Credentials Page" link to open the credential pages for your project.

Make sure your project is selected in the drop-down menu and then click " + Create Credentials " then " OAuth Client ID ".

On this page, select " Web Application " under Application Type , and then enter a Name (this is only used for identification purposes on the backend).

Under " Authorized JavaScript Origins ", click the " + Add URI " button to add your site's domain.

If you are using a custom domain , make sure to use this instead of your BookingKoala subdomain.

Under " Authorized redirect URIs ", click the " + Add URI " button to add your site's redirect domain. Your redirect URI will be your domain plus " /google-auth/ ".

If you are using a custom domain , make sure to use this instead of your BookingKoala subdomain for the redirect URI.

Finally, click the blue " Create " button at the bottom of the page.  Your Client ID and Client Secret Key will be displayed in the resulting pop-up window.

Copy the keys using the copy icon and paste them into their respective boxes in BookingKoala.

Click the blue " Apply " button. You will see a green system notification appear in the top right corner letting you know your Google app settings have been saved successfully.

Under the Apps & Integrations section, you will now see a green " Connected " button.

Users can now sign in or sign up using their Google account.



Activate Facebook sign up/log in
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/activate-facebook-and-google-sign-up-login

Activate Facebook sign up/log in
Learn how to set up options for customers to create an account or log in using their Facebook accounts.

Last updated on 03 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to set up Facebook as a method of logging in for customers

Log In/Sign Up Through Facebook
When a new customer creates an account with your business, you can offer the option for them to sign up with an existing Facebook account. This simplifies the account creation process for users who prefer to use a connected account instead of creating a new account.

Once they have created an account using the Sign Up With Facebook button, they can log in using the same buttons on the " Sign In " page.

In order to activate this button, you will need to activate API keys for Facebook.

Activating Your Facebook API
In your BookingKoala dashboard, go to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations

Scroll down to the Facebook box and click the blue " Enable " button. A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to enable it. Click " Yes " to proceed.

Next, click on the grey " Incomplete " button to the right of the " Disable " button.

A pop-up window will appear. Click the blue " Click here " link toward the bottom of the window.

This link will take you to a registration article. If you do not have one already, you will need to create a Facebook for Developers account .

Click on the Facebook for Developers link in Step 1 , then click " Get Started " at the top right corner of the page.

Once your account has been created, click " My Apps " from the top menu bar. Click the green " Create App" button in the middle of the page.

Next, select " Consumer " for the app type and click " Next ".

For the Display name , type in the name of your business. For the App contact email , enter the email address you would like to be contacted at for support purposes. Then, click the green " Create app " button.

You will be directed to an " Add products to your app " page. Click the " Set Up " button inside the Facebook Login box.

The next page will show options to use for the " Quickstart " option. Unless you are a developer and are comfortable with code, you do not need to continue with the Quickstart steps.

Instead, click on the " Settings " link just below where it says " Facebook Login ".

On the right side of the page, scroll down until you locate the " Login with the JavaScript SDK " option and toggle it to " Yes ".

Right below where it says " Allowed Domains for the JavaScript SDK ", type in your website's URL(s). You will have at least one URL to list, your BookingKoala subdomain . For example, if your store name is demo3, your URL would be "demo3.bookingkoala.com". Also list any custom domains that are linked with your account, like "demo3llc.com". Finally, click the " Save Changes " button at the bottom of the screen to save these settings.

Next, navigate to the " Settings " page located just under the word " Dashboard ". and click on " Basic ". Paste your domain inside the boxes below " App Domains " and " Privacy Policy URL ".

For example, if the URL is https://www.demo2.bookingkoala.com/, you would enter demo2.bookingkoala.com into each box.

When you add a domain to the App domains box, please click on the blue URL that pop-ups below to "select" it.

If you are using a custom domain for your business URL, please enter the custom domain's URL into the boxes. Add any other subdomains for the site to the App Domains box as well.

For " User Data Deletion ", you will need to add a page to your website that includes the following instructions:

"[Business Name] Login" is a Facebook login app and we do not save your personal data on our server. According to Facebook policy, we have to provide Data Deletion Instructions. If you want to delete your activities for MySite Login App, you can remove your information by following these steps:
194 Go to your Facebook Account's Setting & Privacy. Click "Settings"
195 Look for "Apps and Websites" and you will see all of the apps and websites you linked with your Facebook.
196 Search and Click "MySite Login" in the search bar.
197 Scroll and click "Remove".
198 Congratulations, you have successfully removed your app activities.

Click here to learn how to add a new page using the BookingKoala website builder. Once you have created this page, copy the URL and paste it into the box below " Data deletion instructions URL "/

Then, click the blue " Save Changes " button at the bottom of the page.

Next, click on the " App Review " link from the left side menu and go to " Permissions and Features ".

Check that the sections called " public_profile " and " email " are set to " Advanced Access ".

If these sections are set to " Standard Access " instead, click the " Get Advanced " access button all the way to the right of the row.

A pop-up window will appear. Check the box next to " I agree that any data I receive through Email will be used in accordance with the allowed usage " and then click the blue " Confirm " button.

Lastly, toggle the App Mode button at the top of the page to " Live ".

Next, you will copy the App ID and App Secret into BookingKoala. To view the app secret key, click the grey " Show " button and enter your Facebook password.

Once entered, click the blue " Apply " button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know that Facebook has been connected successfully. You will also see that the grey "Incomplete" button now shows "Connected".

To check that the "Login with Facebook" button has been added successfully, open a private/incognito tab with your business URL and click on the "Log In" link from the top menu. When you click" Login with Facebook ", a window will appear asking for the login credentials.



Facebook pixel
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/facebook-pixel

Facebook pixel
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/facebook-pixel

Learn more about Facebook pixels, including how to create a Facebook pixel and connect it to your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 16 Mar, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand: 
Ģ What is a Facebook pixel
Ģ How to create a Facebook pixel for individual accounts
Ģ How to create a Facebook pixel for business manager accounts
Ģ Where to add the Facebook pixel base code if you have embedded BookingKoala forms
Ģ How to connect a Facebook pixel to your website

What is a Facebook pixel?
The Facebook pixel is a piece of code that helps you track customer conversions, grow your audience, and get additional insights on how people are using your site.  

You can create and install a Facebook Pixel for your individual account, or if you have a Facebook Business Manager account,  Facebook allows you to create up to 100 pixels.

Facebook Pixel for Individual Accounts
To set up a Facebook pixel for an individual Facebook account, you must have a website for your business and the ability to update your website's code. If you have a BookingKoala account, you already have both of those and are ready to begin!

199 First, click on the link to go to the Events Manager section of your Facebook account. 
200 In the left side menu, click the green "+ Connect Data Sources" button.  
201 Select "Web" as the data source, then click "Connect".
202 Enter a name for your pixel into the box and then click the blue "Create Pixel" button.  
203 To check for easy integration, enter your website URL into the box, and then click the blue "Tick" button. 
204 A green checkmark will appear to the right of your URL if your site can be integrated easily. Click the blue "Next" button to proceed.
205 Select "Pixel only" and then click "Next".
206 Then, click the blue "Install Code Manually" button.
207 Click the green "Copy Code" button to copy the base code for your Facebook pixel.
208 Next, open your BookingKoala account and go to:
Settings > Design Forms &  Website > Website Builder & Themes
209 Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.
210 For your pixel to work properly, it needs to be displayed on every page of your website. The best place to put the code is in the global settings of your website.  Click on the Settings tab at the top left of the main menu to open your global site settings.
211 A left-side menu will appear. Click the "Tracking & Conversion" tab at the top of the menu.
212 Scroll down until you see a box called "Facebook pixel".  Paste your code into the box below.
213 Then, click the light blue "Save" button at the bottom of the left-side menu. A green notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know the settings have been saved.
214 To push the code live, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page. A green system notification will appear in the top center of the page letting you know your site has been published. 
215 Back on the "Install Base Code" screen in the Facebook Events Manager, click the blue "Continue" button.
216 Next, turn on automatic advanced matching by clicking the toggle button to turn it blue. You will see the different types of customer information you want to send. Then click the blue "Continue" button.
217 You have now successfully installed your base code. You will see that the final step is to set up your event codes, which are used to track specific pages of your website.

There are two different options to set up these codes: using Facebook's Event Setup Tool or manually installing the event codes.  Both options are covered later on in this article under the section "How to Install Event Codes".

Facebook Pixel for Facebook Business Manager Accounts
You may be interested in creating a Facebook pixel for your Business Manager account if you already have a business manager account, someone else manages your Facebook ads, if your business has more than one website or major product/service, or if you want to start measuring metrics but are not yet ready to start creating adds.

Before your begin, make sure you have access to a Business Manager account and that you are an admin on the account you'd like to use. 

218 First, click the link to go to your business settings in the Facebook Business Manager. 
219 Select your business name from the top left menu.
220 Click on the "Data Sources" tab in the left menu and then select "Pixels".
221 Click the blue "Add" button at the center of the screen.
222 A pop-up window will appear. Enter a name for your pixel in the first box and then click the blue "Continue" button. 
223 You will be directed to a new pop-up window letting you know your pixel isn't ready to use yet.  From here, click "Set up the pixel now" to proceed with connecting the pixel to your BookingKoala account.  
224 On the next page, select the middle option, "Manually add pixel code to website".  
225 Your Facebook pixel code will be located in the first box. Copy the code by clicking inside the box. In a few steps, you will post this code into your Bookingkoala account.
226 Scroll down to the second step and make sure automatic advanced matching has been turned on.  If not, click the toggle button to turn it blue and you will see the different types of customer information you want to send.
227 Next, open your BookingKoala account and go to:
Settings > Design Forms &  Website > Website Builder & Themes
228 Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.
229 For your pixel to work properly, it needs to be displayed on every page of your website. The best place to put the code is in the global settings of your website.  Click on the Settings tab at the top left of the main menu to open your global site settings.
230 A left-side menu will appear. Click the "Tracking & Conversion" tab at the top of the menu.
231 Scroll down until you see a box called "Facebook pixel".  Paste your code into the box below.
232 Then, click the light blue "Save" button at the bottom of the left-side menu. A green notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know the settings have been saved.
233 To push the code live, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page. A green system notification will appear in the top center of the page letting you know your site has been published. 
234 Then, you will need to log out of your BookingKoala account temporarily to test the connection.  
235 Back in your "Install pixel" pop-up in Facebook, scroll down to the third step called "Test the base code".  Enter your store URL into the box below and then click the green "Send Test Traffic" button.  
236 A new window will open with your webpage. Navigate back to the "Install Pixel" pop-up and give the system a few moments to check that your code is active. If your code was saved correctly, you will eventually see a green dot with the word "Active".
237 Click the blue "Continue" button at the bottom of the page.
238 You have now successfully installed your base code. You will see a pop-up with two different options to set up "Event Codes", which is covered in the next section.

Facebook Pixel for Embedded Forms
If you've embedded BookingKoala forms onto your website, you will still need to add the Facebook pixel and the event tracking code in the sections stated above. You will also need to add the Facebook pixel to your header section in your website builder.

239 Go to:
Settings > Design Forms &  Website > Website Builder & Themes
240 Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.
241 Click on the grey "Page Settings" button by the top-left of the screen.
242 A "Page Settings" pop-up will appear. Click the "Header Code" tab and paste your Facebook pixel base code into the box below. Then click the blue "Save" button.
243 To push the code live, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page. A green system notification will appear in the top center of the page letting you know your site has been published.

How to Install Event Codes in BookingKoala
The next step in the Facebook pixel installation process is to install event codes into your site.  Event codes track the various events that take place on specific pages of your website. 

After installing your base code, the pop-up window will give you two options to help with installing your event codes. If you set up an individual Facebook account, your event set up prompt will look like this: 

If you set up a business manager Facebook account, your setup screen will look like this:

The first option is to use Facebook's Event Setup Tool to easily add event codes to your site. 

The second option is to manually add event codes to your page using the Bookingkoala Website builder.  

Using the Facebook Event Setup Tool
Click "Open Facebook Setup Tool"/"Use Facebook's Event Setup Tool" to proceed with using the event setup tool to add your event codes.  This code-free tool allows you to navigate your site and add events to buttons and URLs without having to insert any custom code.

To proceed, enter your Website URL into the box and then click the blue "Open Website" button to launch the tool.

A new window will open, bringing you into the Event Setup Tool on your website.

Click the "Next" button to go through a brief overview of how the tool works.  

Click here to view Facebook's article on how to use the Facebook Event setup tool for web. 

Manually Adding Event Codes in the Website Builder
If you'd prefer to manually set up your event codes, you can select the link that says "Install events using code"/"Manually add event code".

Select a category from the drop-down menu and then click on the Event Name to view the code.

For example, if you want to track a purchase on a particular page, click on "Purchase" to expand that section. Scroll down until you see the box with the code's script and click it to copy the text.

Next, open your BookingKoala account and go to:
Settings > Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes > Customize Theme

Click the "Page" menu at the top center of the page and a side menu will appear on the left.

Click the three vertical dots icon next to the page you'd like to edit, then click on "Settings".  

A pop-up will appear displaying the various options for code you can place in this section for tracking.

Click the "Facebook Pixel" tab and paste your event code into the box below.

Click the blue "Save" button to close out the pop-up. Then, click the blue "Save and Publish" button in the top right-hand corner to push the code live.

A green system notification will appear in the top center of the page letting you know your site has been published. You have now successfully added your event pixel to this page.

As long as you also placed your Facebook Pixel code in the overall site settings in the previous steps, no matter which page is loaded, the pixel will "fire" and track where the visitor is.



Setting up taxes with Taxify
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/sales-tax

Setting up taxes with Taxify
Learn how to set up sales tax for your services using Taxify.

Last updated on 27 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand how to:

Ģ Enable sales tax
Ģ Set up Taxify to calculate your sales tax automatically
Ģ Change your sales tax label

Enable Sales Tax
If your local government requires sales tax for your services, you can set up your BookingKoala account to charge tax on top of their service total.

There are two different options when it comes to setting up your sales tax.

244 If you know your local tax rate and it will not change based on the services your customer purchases, you can set up flat-rate tax for each of your locations. Click here to learn how to set up flat-rate taxes.
245 If your local taxes are complicated or change based on services and locale, you can set up and connect a third-party app called Taxify to calculate your sales tax.

To begin, go to:

Settings > General > Taxes

Click on the red " Disabled " button to change it to " Enabled ".

Change the Tax Label
To change what the "sales tax" label says in your account, go to:

Settings > General > Taxes

Scroll down to the "Customize Tax Label" section and enter the new term into the box below.

Then press the blue "Save" button.

Taxify-Based Sales Tax
If you'd like to use a Taxify account to calculate sales tax for your locations, select " Taxify " under " Do you want to use Taxify or flat tax? "

To use this option, you must have a Taxify account. To sign up and start a free trial, click here.

To learn how to set up taxes in your Taxify account, please visit the Taxify knowledge base or contact their support at taxifysupport@sovos.com .

Once you are logged into your Taxify dashboard, click on " Manage Add-Ons ".

On the Manage Add-Ons page, click on the " Taxify API " icon.

Here you will locate your Taxify API key.

Copy all of the letters and numbers here and then paste them into the API Key box back in Bookingkoala.

Click the blue " Save " button to finish connecting your Taxify account.

Charge Sales Tax on the Service Fee
If you also charge service fees based on your locations, you can decide whether or not you would like those fees to be tax-exempt or not. This option is controlled under your Form Settings .

To charge sales tax on your service fee, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Next, click " Options ", then " Edit " next to the form you'd like to update.

Scroll down until you see the question, " Would you like to make the service fee taxable? " and select " Yes ".

Please note : If you have existing bookings in the system already, this change will only impact new bookings after the setting has been saved.

Then, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page to update your form. Repeat these steps for every form you'd like to charge sales tax on the service fee.



How to connect your Mailchimp account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-connect-your-mailchimp-account

How to connect your Mailchimp account
Learn how to create and integrate MailChimp into your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 15 Mar, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What is Mailchimp
Ģ How to create a Mailchimp account
Ģ Where to connect your Mailchimp account in BookingKoala

What is Mailchimp?
Mailchimp is a marketing platform that uses email to reach your desired audience. This tool allows you to manage mailing lists, create email templates, and automate your marketing campaigns.

Mailchimp offers several different plans when you sign up, including a free plan if you'd like to test out their more basic features.

If you have a Premium Subscription with BookingKoala, all of these tools and more are available in the Campaign Module for no additional fee or restrictions on how many contacts you can have.

Click here to read more about how you can use our Campaigns to convert more users, profit from your existing user base, and convert more prospects/providers.

Create a Mailchimp Account
To create a Mailchimp account, click here to view their various plans and pricing. If you like to test it out first, click here to start with their free plan.

Enter an Email, Username, and Password into the boxes, then click the "Sign Up" button.

Check your inbox for an account activation email from clientservices@mailchimp.com.

Once you've opened the email, click the green "Activate Account" link. You will be redirected to your web browser.

Follow the instructions to prove you are not a robot by clicking the grey "I'm Not A Robot" button.

You will be directed to their plan sign-up page. Select which plan you'd like to use, and then click the green "Next" button.

Next, enter your First Name, Last Name, and Business Name into the boxes.

Optionally, you can list your Website URL and a Phone Number. If you'd like to get custom designs based on your website look, you can check the box next to "Import My Brand". Then, click the green "Continue" button.

Next, enter your Address, then click the green "Continue" button.

Next, provide an answer to the question, "Do you have any contacts?"
Ģ Select "Yes" if you already have contacts for clients that you'd like to use in Mailchimp.
? If you selected "Yes", pick an option for how many email contacts you have.
Ģ Select "No" if you have not compiled a list of contacts just yet. This will let MailChimp know to help you with ads and landing pages.
Ģ Select "I'm not sure" if you are not sure if you have contacts to import and then select a reason from the drop-down box.

Then, click the green "Continue" button.

On the next page, select an option for "Do you sell products or services online?". If you select one of the first three options, select an answer for where you sell your products.

Then click "Continue", or you can click "Skip" if you do not want to provide an answer right now.

The final step will offer various marketing emails you can receive from MailChimp. If you do not want to receive any of these emails, simply click the green "Continue" button without checking any of the boxes.

You will be redirected to your MailChimp dashboard.

Your account has been successfully created. You can follow the steps as suggested by MailChimp to finish integrating other sites you use, create your first campaign, add your contacts, and launch.

Simply click the title of each section to expand it and view instructions on how to complete each of these steps.

Connect Your MailChimp Account
Once you have finished up your final tasks, you will need to generate an API code to connect your Mailchimp account to BookingKoala.

Click on your name in the bottom left corner of your MailChimp dashboard to open the menu, then select "Account".

You will be redirected to your Account Overview page. Click on the "Extras" tab on the top menu and select "API Keys".

Scroll down to the "Your API Keys" section until you see a cracked egg. Click the grey "Create A Key" button just below.

A key will be automatically generated for you. Copy the key in the box below API Key.

Settings > General > Email Lists

Paste the key into the box below "MailChimp API Key", then click the blue "Connect" button.

A green system notification will appear, letting you know that your Mailchimp account has been integrated successfully. The blue "Connect" button will now read "Connected". Below, you will now see a new section where you can connect your audience lists to your various forms.

Click here to learn more about how to connect your MailChimp audiences to BookingKoala.



MailChimp email lists and abandoned cart
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/email-lists-and-abandoned-cart

MailChimp email lists and abandoned cart
Learn more about how to connect your Mailchimp email lists to BookingKoala.

Last updated on 17 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are email lists
Ģ How to create and connect your MailChimp account
Ģ How to set up your email lists in BookingKoala

What are email lists?
Email lists are lists of contacts that are compiled to send out email campaigns. Email lists are updated automatically depending on what actions are taken (or not taken) by the user.

If you do not have a Premium Subscription but would still like to send out campaigns and compile email lists, you can sign up for a Mailchimp account to integrate with BookingKoala.

Mailchimp is a marketing platform that uses email to reach your desired audience. This tool allows you to manage mailing lists, create email templates, and automate your marketing campaigns.

Connect Your MailChimp Account
Click here to view our guide on how to create and connect MailChimp to your BookingKoala account.

Please note that you must create your audience lists in MailChimp first before you can

How to Set Up Your Email Lists
Once you've connected your MailChimp account, you will see multiple tabs appear in the section below.

The "All" tab controls lists for your Staff, Providers, and All Customers. Click the drop-down menu for each section to select the correct email list to sort your contacts into.

There are three types of email lists you can integrate with BookingKoala for your booking forms: abandoned carts, one-time users, and recurring users. To select the email lists for each type of industry, click the Industry Name tabs along the menu bar.

If you service multiple locations, you can select "Default" to add customers from all locations into one list, or select the Location Name from the list and then select each email list in the boxes below if you have separate lists per location.

Abandoned Cart List If you use a two-step or multi-step booking form, customers are required to enter an email address before seeing availability for the service. Once they click the "Next" button, even if they end up not booking, their email can be captured in an "Abandoned Cart" list. This email list can then be used to retarget visitors who navigated away from the booking page before buying your service.

Let's say a potential customer is added to the abandoned cart list after they navigated away from the booking form. If they come back and book a service, they will be automatically relocated from the abandoned cart list into the one-time or recurring user list, depending on the frequency of the booking.

One-Time User List This email list contains the email addresses of customers who have booked a one-time appointment. This list can be used to entice customers into signing up for recurring services if your company offers these.

Recurring User List This email list contains the email addresses of customers who have booked recurring services. This list can be used to inform existing customers about new promotions, updates about your business, and other marketing materials.



How to fix your "Social Share" details
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-fix-your-social-share-details

How to fix your "Social Share" details
Learn how to troubleshoot problems with a page's title, description, and thumbnail when shared on social media.

Last updated on 29 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ How to use the Facebook Debugger to fix outdated share details on Facebook
Ģ How to use the Twitter Web Crawler to fix outdated share details on Twitter

Using the Facebook Debugger
Whenever you share a page of your site on social media sites like Facebook, it will display the page's title , description , and a site thumbnail .  However, this information may appear to be outdated if you've made a lot of changes to the page.  To preview and debug any issues with your social share details, you can use the Facebook Debugger tool .

246 Click here (https://developers.facebook.com/tools/debug/) to visit the Facebook Debugger page.
247 Enter your page's URL into the URL field.
248 Click the blue " Debug " button to the right of the URL field.
249 Select one of the following options:

249.1 Click " Fetch new information " for URLs that have never been shared on Facebook before.
249.2 Click " Scrape again " for URLs that have been shared on Facebook previously.

Ģ Please Note : You may need to click the " Scrape again " option multiple times before your social share information will be updated.

If using the debugger does not fix the issues, please also check that you have added your personal Facebook Account username under the Social Settings section in your Facebook dashboard.

Another factor that may be impacting your share content is the size and resolution of your thumbnail. Click here (https://developers.facebook.com/docs/sharing/webmasters/images/) to make sure the image in your link share meets Facebook's criteria.

Using the Twitter Web Crawler
Similar to sharing a page on Facebook, Twitter displays a " Card " whenever you share a URL on their platform.  Twitter Cards allow you to attach photos, videos, and other media to Tweets.   If you are having any issues with your Cards displaying the correct media, you can utilize the Twitter Web Crawler to reindex the card tag information for your page.

250 Add the Twitter Card metadata to a page.
251 Tweet the URL to that page.
252 Refresh your browser to view the Twitter Card contents on your timeline.
253 Make any necessary changes to the Cards metadata on the page.
254 Use the same URL and run it through bit.ly , a free URL shortener. Click here (https://bitly.com/) to visit bit.ly's homepage.

254.1 Enter the URL into the " Shorten your link " field.
254.2 Click the dark blue " Shorten " button.
254.3 Click the light blue " Copy " button to copy the shortened URL.
255 Tweet the new bit.ly URL you just copied.
256 Refresh your browser to view the updates.

? Please Note: It can take up to 7 days for new page information to appear in Twitter shares.



How to connect an Authorize.net account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-connect-an-authorize-net-account

How to connect an Authorize.net account
Learn how to connect your Authorize.net account to charge customers and collect payments.

Last updated on 01 Sept, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Create an Authorize.net account
Ģ Flush out any test data
Ģ Connect Authorize.net as your payment processor

Creating an Authorize.net account
First, you will need to set up an Authorize.net account if you do not have one already.
For questions about how to set up your account, please contact Authorize.net Support for more information.
Please Note: Authorize.net can only accept currencies from certain countries. Click here to see a full list of which currencies and countries are compatible.

Flush your test data
Next, if you haven't done so already, you will need to flush the test data out of the system. Every new BookingKoala account includes a few fake customers, providers, and bookings to better help you understand the system and test your settings. It is important to flush the test data before incorporating your payment processor, as any existing bookings with payment options may affect the accuracy of your revenue and earnings reports.
Click here to learn how to remove the test data from your account.

Find Your Authorize.net API Keys
You will connect your account by entering three API keys from your Authorize.net account into your BookingKoala settings.
Next, locate the "Security Settings" section and click the "API Credentials & Keys" link.
The first key you will need to copy is the API Login ID. This is located below the paragraphs at the top of this section.
The next key you will need, a Transaction Key can be generated from this page. Scroll down to the "Create New Key(s)" section and select the circle next to "New Transaction Key". Then, click the "Submit" button to generate the key.
If your account is already verified, a new transaction key will be generated immediately. Click the "Copy to Clipboard" button to copy the key.
If your account has not been verified yet, you will be prompted to complete that process by sending a pin to your email and using the pin to proceed to the "Generated Key" page.
To get the final key, navigate back to the "Home" page in your Authorize.net dashboard.
Again, click on "Settings", which can be found under the "Account" section in the left-side menu.
Locate the "Security Settings" section and click the "Manage Public Client Key" link.
Copy the (Public) Client Key. This key is very long so please be sure you have copied the entire code before proceeding.
Now that you've gathered your API Login ID, Transaction Key, and Public Client Key, you are ready to connect your account to BookingKoala.

Connecting Your Authorize.Net Account to BookingKoala
Navigation Path: Settings > General > Store Options > Admin
Scroll down to the Connect Payment Gateways section at bottom of the page. Next to the option "Enable or disable your payment processor", click the red "Disabled" button. A pop-up window will appear, click Yes to continue.
Next, click on the Authorize.net tab from the side panel.
Here, you will paste your API Login ID into the first box, the Transaction Key into the second box, and the Public Client Key into the third box.
Click the blue Save button to connect the account. You will see a green system alert in the top right corner of the page letting you know the account has been connected successfully.

Enhanced Address Verification Service
One feature offered by Authorize.net (absent from PayPal, Stripe, or Square) is the ability to verify credit card authenticity by entering the customer's billing address. This feature can be enabled in your Authorize.net account by going to the "Settings" section and clicking on the "Enhanced Address Verification Service" link.
Click here to learn more about how to enable and set up this feature. If you use the enhanced location verification service from Authorize.net, it will require a billing address to save a new booking.
Ģ If you are using zip/post-code-based locations, the location for the card will be sourced from the zip/post-code entered at the top of the page.
Ģ If you use merchant/online locations, there will be a billing address box at the top of the "Payment Information" section of the booking form.
Ģ If you are sending a gift card (or the customer is purchasing one themselves), there will also be a billing address box near the bottom of the page.

Processing Charges with Authorize.net
Whenever you charge customers in BookingKoala, those transactions will be logged inside your Authorize.net account as well. Authorize.net finalizes the payment after the charge passes the address and bank verification. Whenever you process charges in BookingKoala, you can find the corresponding transactions under the "Unsettled Transactions" section in Authorize.net.
To see the unsettled transactions, open your Authorize.net dashboard, find the "Transaction Search" section, and click on "Unsettled Transactions".
There are three different transaction statuses used in this section.
Ģ "Declined" shows the transactions have not been collected. These can be viewed in BookingKoala by going to Bookings > Booking Charges > Declined.
Ģ "Authorized/Pending Capture" means that the transaction has passed the authorization process and is ready to be collected from the bank. These can be viewed in BookingKoala by going to Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges.
Ģ "Captured/Pending Settlement" means that the transaction is a card hold and will be captured once you finalize the payment. These can be viewed in BookingKoala by going to Bookings > Booking Charges > Card Hold(s)/Declined.
Click here to learn more about how to process customer charges in BookingKoala.

Processing Refunds with Authorize.net
One difference between Authorize.net and the other payment processors integrated with BookingKoala is that a payment cannot be refunded until the transaction is settled in Authorize.net.
If you go to process a refund and see a message like the one below, you'll need to wait until the charge is settled in Authorize.net before performing a refund in BookingKoala.
Click here to learn more about how to process refunds in BookingKoala.

Are you ready to start sending payments to providers?
Click here to visit the guide on how to connect Authorize.net to link your provider's accounts for payouts and deposits.
Once you have integrated Authorize.net with your BookingKoala account, click here to learn how you can connect provider bank accounts to receive payouts.
If you would like your providers to be able to set up or connect their own accounts, click here.



How to set up Stripe to pay providers
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/link-stripe-connect-to-pay-providers

How to set up Stripe to pay providers
Learn how to set up and integrate Stripe Connect so you can send provider payments using your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 06 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to submit a Stripe Connect application
Ģ How to integrate Stripe Connect so providers can receive payments from your BookingKoala account

Getting Started
To initiate provider payments through BookingKoala, you must have a Stripe account with permission to add Stripe Connect to your services. If you havenÆt yet set up your Stripe account to process customer payments, please follow our guide to complete this initial step, as it is required before setting up provider payments.

Creating a Stripe Connect Application
To enable provider payouts from your Stripe account, you must create a Stripe Connect platform. Ensure your Stripe account is fully activated and verified before proceeding.

257 Access the Connect Set-Up Page:
? Click here to navigate directly to the Connect set-up page, or:
258 Initiate the Set-Up Process:
? Once on the Connect set-up page, click the "Get Started" button.
? You will be redirected to a confirmation page. Click "Continue."
259 Configure Funds Flow:
? When prompted with ō How will funds flow on your platform? ö, select ō Buyers will purchase from you ö and click "Continue."
? Review your responsibilities in the pop-up dialog box. Click "Review"
? Then, check the agreement box and click "Continue."
260 Set Up Seller Payouts:
? When asked, ō How will sellers be paid out? ö, select ō Sellers will be paid out individually ö and click "Continue."
? Choose the industry that best matches your business. If unsure, select " On-demand services " and then click "Continue."
261 Configure Seller Onboarding:
? After completing the funds flow setup, select ōOnboarding hosted by Stripeö for the question ō Where will sellers create their account? ö and click "Continue."
? For ō Where will sellers manage their account? ö, choose "Express Dashboard" and click "Continue."
? Review all selected options and click "Continue."
262 Add Branding Settings:
? Click the "Get Started" button to add your business name, logo, icon, and color options.
? After inputting this information, click " Save ."

Connecting Stripe Connect to BookingKoala
263 Enable Provider Payments:
? Navigation path: Settings > General > Store Options > Admin
? Scroll to the section " Are you ready to connect your provider's payment accounts? " and toggle the setting to "Enabled."
264 Select Provider Connection Methods:
? Choose the methods (e.g., Bank Details, Debit Card) by which providers will connect their Stripe accounts. These options will be visible on the provider payment processor page.
265 Add Merchant Category Code (MCC) and Product Description:
? For the Bank Details and Debit Card options, input the MCC and product description in the settings, then click "Save."
266 Setting Up Redirect Link Authentication (if applicable):
? If you select the Redirect Link authentication option, follow these steps to update the Client ID and redirect URI(s):
Ģ Go to the Connect settings page on your Stripe dashboard by clicking the settings icon at the top right and selecting "Connect."
Ģ Select Onboarding options from the connect settings page.
Ģ Copy the client ID (live mode client ID) listed under the Connect Settings page. This code always begins with "ca_" and is followed by a long string of numbers and letters.
Ģ Ensure OAuth is enabled.
Ģ Paste the Client ID into the corresponding field in BookingKoala.
Ģ Once you've entered the client ID into the box, scroll down and click the "Copy" button to copy the link from the second box.
Ģ Return to your Stripe dashboard and click the white "Add URI" button just below the live mode client ID. Paste the link you copied from BookingKoala into the pop-up and click "Add URI".
267 Multiple Domain Setup:
? If you operate multiple domains, ensure that each has a redirect URI listed.
? For example:
Ģ https://demo2llc.com/api/v1/authorize_stripe
Ģ https://demo2.bookingkoala.com/api/v1/authorize_stripe
268 Finalizing the Setup:
? After updating the URIs in Stripe, click the " Save " button in BookingKoala.

Please Note : Stripe may take up to 48 hours to approve your Stripe Connect application. During this time, connecting accounts or setting up provider accounts may be temporarily unavailable.

Are you ready to send payments to your providers?
Click here to learn how to set up your branding and connect your providers on Stripe.
Click here to learn how you can create and/or connect provider Stripe accounts to receive payouts from your account.
Click here to see an instruction guide for providers on how to set up and connect their own Stripe accounts.



3D Secure 2.0 (3DS2)
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/3d-secure-2-0-3ds2

3D Secure 2.0 (3DS2)
Learn more about the 3DS2 card security requirements and how it affects payment processing in your account.

Last updated on 10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about
Ģ What 3D Secure 2.0 (3DS2) is and how it works
Ģ How 3DS affects adding cards and capturing payments
Ģ What customers experience when making purchases with 3DS2-enabled cards
Ģ How to enable automated 3DS2 notifications to authenticate charges
Ģ How to edit the customer's charge authentication page
Ģ What the 3DS payment intents and labels indicate in your payment processor

What is 3DS2?
3DS2 SCA (Secure Customer Authentication) is an authentication and security protocol designed to help merchants and banks meet the Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) requirements of the EUÆs Revised Payment Services Directive (PSD2). The protocol is designed to help ensure secure online payments and protect against fraud. 3DS2 SCA works by using a combination of two-factor authentication (2FA) and 3D Secure 2 (3DS2) technology to verify a cardholder's identity.

3DS2 SCA is designed to ensure customers can make secure online payments while helping merchants and banks meet the SCA requirements of PSD2. By using a combination of two-factor authentication and 3D Secure 2, 3DS2 SCA provides an additional layer of security for online payments.

When a customer makes an online payment, the merchant sends a request to the customerÆs bank to authenticate the transaction. The bank will then provide the customer with an authentication method, like SMS codes, biometrics, or a one-time password, to verify their identity. Once this step is complete, the bank sends a response to the merchant with the authentication result. This result is used to determine whether the transaction can be approved or declined.

Which payment processors utilize 3DS2?
Three out of the payment processors that integrate with BookingKoala are 3DS2-compliant:
Ģ Stripe
Ģ Square
Ģ PayPal (via Braintree)

The payment processor Authorize.net currently does not support 3DS2.

How does 3DS2 impact payment processing?
3DS2 implementation affects how the following actions are completed in BookingKoala:
Ģ Adding a card to a customer's profile
Ģ Charging/pre-charging a booking
Ģ Placing a hold/card preauthorization
Ģ Selling/purchasing a gift card
Ģ Adding a late tip
Ģ Charging a rescheduling fee
Ģ Charging a cancellation fee
Ģ Charging an additional fee

Whenever a customer's card is added or charged, your payment processor will first check to see if the customer's bank requires additional authentication as required by 3DS2.
Ģ If authentication is required, the system will automatically send the customer an email and/or SMS notification asking them to authenticate their card via a secure link.
Ģ If it is not required, transactions will process as usual.

Enable 3DS2 for Your Account
You can enable 3DS2 for your account by going to:
Settings > General > Store Options

Click on the "Admin" tab at the top of the page, then scroll down to just after the "Connect Payment Gateways" section. Look for the feature "Enable or disable 3DS (Strong Customer Authentication) feature".

If the button in front of the feature is red and reads "Disabled", this indicates that the 3DS2 feature is not live for your account.

You can toggle the button to "Enabled" by clicking on the bottom. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you would like to enable the 3DS2 feature. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

A green system alert will appear in the top right corner of the page confirming that the changes you've made to your store settings have been saved successfully.

Adding a New Credit Card
Adding cards with 3DS2 to BookingKoala will now require an additional step to authenticate the card. Regardless of how the new card is added, the procedure for 3DS2 card authentication will follow the same flow once the card information is entered.

To begin, go to one of the sections that allow you to add a new card.

Add a card to a customer profile
269 Go to the Customers section and click on a customer's name.
270 Click on their Profile tab.
271 Scroll down to the Billing Information section, and
272 Click on the blue "Add New" button.

Add a card to a new booking
273 Click the blue Book Now button at the top of the side menu to create a new booking.
274 Scroll down to the Payment Information section and use the New Credit Card option.

Add a card to an existing booking
275 Click the Edit button/icon for an existing booking anywhere in your dashboard.
276 Scroll down to the Payment Information section and use the New Credit Card option.

Add a card to charge an additional fee or late tip
277 Go to Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges tab.
278 Click on the Additional Charge or Add Tip icon for the booking.
279 Use the New Credit Card option.

Add a card to charge a cancelation fee
280 Click the Cancel Booking button/icon for any active booking in the system.
281 Select the Add New option in the pop-up window.

Add a card to charge a rescheduling fee
282 Click the Edit button/icon to open the booking and
283 Click the Reschedule button under the check availability section and select a new date and time.
284 Click the Update Booking button.
285 Use the Add New option in the pop-up window.

Next, enter the card number, expiration date, and security code into the "Add New" or "New Credit Card" fields, then click Next if applicable or proceed to the next step.

Click the Add Card button. The payment processor will check to see if the bank requires additional authentication to add the card.

If the bank does not require additional authentication, the card will be added to the customer's profile or booking(s) automatically. If the bank requires additional authentication, a pop-up will appear for you to complete the process. Click the Complete Authentication button to proceed.

The customer's bank may send them a password or code for you to enter into the next step, or they may get a security challenge or verification step to complete on their end.

Once this step is completed, the card will be saved to the customer's profile or booking(s).

How does 3DS2 impact booking charges?
BookingKoala allows you to charge customers manually, automatically, or use a combination of both methods.

Processing Manual Booking Charges
The process for collecting pending payments for cards with 3DS2 is the same as processing payments for other cards with one additional step for the customer: completing card authentication so the payment can be collected.

Payments can be charged by going to Bookings > Booking Charges > Pending Payments tab.

286 To charge a single booking, click the $ icon to charge the card on file.
If you see the dollar bill icon instead, the booking has Cash/Check set as the payment method instead so 3DS2 will not be a factor when "charging" the booking.
287 Upon clicking the charge icon, a pop-up window will appear asking you to confirm the charge.
288 Once you click the Charge Now button, the payment gateway will check if the card requires additional authentication to process the payment.
Ģ If the bank requires additional authentication, an email and SMS notification will be sent to the customer asking them to authenticate the card using a secure link. Once the customer clicks the link and authenticates their card, the charge will be posted.
Ģ If the bank does not require 3DS2 authentication, BookingKoala will process the transaction per usual.

289 While the charge is pending, a Booking Charge Pending Authorization tag will be added to any booking(s) that require customer authentication. The tag will be removed once the customer completes the transaction.

Please Note: The flow that authenticates the customer's card for charging a tip, rescheduling fee, cancellation fee, additional charge, or gift card follows the same flow as when processing a booking charge. Each type of charge has a corresponding tag that shows if the pending authorization charge is for a booking, tip, cancellation free, etc.

Canceling Bookings with Cancellation Fees
BookingKoala allows you to charge cancellation fees to compensate the company and/or your providers for loss of work due to last-minute cancellations.

Ģ Bookings can be canceled by clicking on the trash can icon when in list view.
Ģ If viewing jobs in the calendar view, click on the job and select "Cancel" from the right-side menu buttons.

If you cancel a booking that is applicable for the cancelation fee, there will be a cancelation pop-up that displays the fees that the customer will be charged for canceling the service.

Ģ If 3DS2 authentication is not required, the cancellation fee will be processed per usual upon clicking "Cancel Booking"/"Cancel All Appointments" in the cancellation pop-up.
Ģ If the 3DS2 authentication is required to charge the cancellation fee, a cancellation fee authentication email and/or SMS notification will be sent to the customer to complete the authorization and a cancellation fee pending authorization tag will be added to the booking until the customer authenticates the charge.
Ģ The booking will not be canceled until the customer authenticates the cancellation fee. If you need to cancel the booking and would like to waive the cancellation fee, you can check the box(es) next to the "Don't Pay Cancellation Fee" option in the booking cancellation pop-up.

Processing Automatic Booking Charges
Ģ For the transactions in which 3DS2 authentication is not required, the process will remain the same.
Ģ For the transactions for which 3DS2 authentication is required, an email and SMS notification will be sent to the customer asking to authenticate the charge
Ģ The pending authorization tag will also appear on any booking(s) that require authentication and remain there until the customer completes the transaction.

Processing a Combination of Manual and Automatic Charges
Ģ If a booking is pre-charged and 3DS2 authentication is required to process the transaction, an authentication notification will be sent to the customer asking them to authenticate the charge.
Ģ If the customer does not authenticate the precharge amount before the booking is set to be automatically charged, the previous authentication request will expire and a new request will be sent to the customer for the most recent attempt.
Ģ The pending authorization tag will also appear on any booking(s) that require authentication and remain there until the customer completes the transaction.

How does 3DS2 impact credit card holds/preauthorizations?
BookingKoala allows you to perform credit card holds to reserve the customer's payment before it is collected.

If you save a new booking during the automatic card hold period, an authentication notification will be sent to the customer as required by the customer's bank.

A pop-up message will notify you about the pending card hold authentication.

A Pending Authorization tag will be shown on the booking until the customer authenticates the card and the hold is placed.

Please note: The process for placing automatic card holds upon rescheduling a booking and placing manual card holds is the same as when the card hold is placed upon saving a new booking.

How does 3DS2 affect pre-charges?
Pre-Charges with a Price Increase
If you have pre-charged an upcoming booking and the transaction is not finalized due to 3DS2, an authentication notification will be sent to the customer to authenticate the charge.

When increasing the total and updating the booking, a pop-up will confirm that the pre-charge amount has been updated for the pending card hold. Once authentication has been completed by the customer, they will be charged the updated amount.

Please note: The flow for price decreases remains the same.

Pre-Charges with Pre-Paid Coupons
The Coupons section under the Marketing tab allows you to create custom discount codes to share with your customers.

Specifically, pre-paid coupons require the customer to pre-pay one or more appointments before the coupon discount is applied to their bookings/services. This option can be enabled under the Limitations tab when creating or editing the coupon code.

Once the coupon code has been applied and the booking is saved or rescheduled, a pre-charge will be performed for the applicable number of pre-paid bookings.

If the payment gateway does not require authentication, the charge(s) will be processed as usual.

If 3DS2 authentication is required, a pre-charge authentication email and/or SMS will be sent to the customer and the booking(s) will be saved/updated successfully.

A Pending Authorization tag will be shown on the booking until the customer authenticates the card and the pre-charge(s) are processed.

How does 3DS2 affect the customer experience?
All transactions that take place in the customer dashboards (except pre-charges and rescheduling fees) will be on-session, meaning the customer will be asked to authenticate the card during the checkout process.

For pre-charges and rescheduling fees, an authentication email or SMS will be sent to the customer asking them to authenticate the payment if required by their bank.

If a customer adds a booking that falls under automatic card hold/preauthorization conditions and their bank requires authentication, the bank will pose a challenge or security question to authenticate the charge.

Once they pass the challenge, the funds will be held/preauthorized automatically.

If the authentication fails for any reason, the booking will be saved successfully and the system will send a notification with an authentication link to the customer instead.

3DS2 Authentication Notifications
Once the 3DS2 feature is enabled, as explained above, the Email and SMS notification sections have five templates to assist customers with authenticating their cards. To view, edit, or enable/disable these templates, go to Notifications > Email > Customer tab or Notifications > SMS > Customer tab.

3DS-related templates for both email and SMS notifications can be found in the following sections:
Ģ Booking fee charges & refund
Ģ Card charge authentication
Ģ Pre-charge authentication
Ģ Card declined
Ģ Card Hold authentication
Ģ Gift card and referral
Ģ Gift card authentication
Ģ Canceled booking
Ģ Cancellation fee

How do customers authenticate the charge once they receive an authentication notification?
The customer 3DS notifications contain a secure link that directs them to the authentication page.

Once the customer clicks on the blue "Authenticate Card" button, they can authenticate an existing card by filling in the security code/CVV and clicking on the ōAuthorize Cardö button.

Please note: The payment processor Square does not require the customer to enter the CVV if the transaction is using an existing credit card as opposed to a newly added card.

The customer can also process the transaction using the new card by clicking on the new card link on the authentication page.

On the New Card page, they can enter the card details and then click on the ōAuthorize Cardö button.

Their card issuer will send a verification code or security question to the customer to authenticate the new card.

Once the security challenge is completed, the hold or booking charge will be processed immediately and the pending authorization tag will be removed.

Handling Expired Authentification Requests
All card and charge authentication requests eventually maintain a higher level of security if the customer fails to complete the authorization promptly.

Authentication requests will expire under the following circumstances:
Ģ Once the customer successfully authenticates the charge.
Ģ If the 3DS2 authentication request is sent to the customer for booking charge/ pre-charge/booking remaining charge and the card is changed on the booking.
Ģ If the booking charge/ pre-charge/ reschedule-fee/ additional charge/ extra charge request is sent to the customer and the booking is canceled successfully.
Ģ If the cancellation request is sent to the customer and the booking is rescheduled or updated.
Ģ If the 3DS2 authentication request is sent for the booking charge, and the booking is moved to the future.
Ģ If the booking charge and the booking cancellation request are sent to the customer and the customer authenticates the booking charge. In this case, the cancellation fee request will be expired.
Ģ If the card hold request is sent to the customer and the booking is rescheduled after the card hold criteria, in this case, the booking card hold request will be expired.

If you even need to resend the card authorization notification to the customer, you can click on the Resend icon to the right of the Pending Authorization tag anywhere the booking is listed.

A pop-up will appear confirming you'd like to resend the authentication email to the customer. Select "Yes" to proceed.

Editing the Card Authentication Page
The appearance and/or redirect link for the customer's card authorization page can be edited inside the Website and Theme Builder.

To begin, go to Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme button.

Click on the top center Page menu and select the Reauth Card page.

Use the website builder tools to edit the text and appearance of the authentication page.

To edit the background color, click the background of the page and click on the white Edit button that appears in the top corner of the section.

To edit the title and text boxes on the page, click on the text and select the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner of the box.

To link the page customers are redirected to after completing authentication, click on the ōAuthorize Cardö button and select the white Edit button that appears in the top corner.

Be sure to click the blue "Save & Publish" button in the top right corner of the page to push your changes live.

Understanding 3DS2 Payment Intents and Statuses
For all payment processors (except Authorize.Net), the transaction flow for 3DS2 cards is the same. However, each payment processor has different labels for the payment intents and transactions.

Stripe
The payment status "failed" will appear in Stripe if a transaction cannot be completed because of 3DS2.

On the payment overview under your timeline, the payment failure code will appear as ōauthentication_required".

When the payment is authenticated by the customer, the same payment intent will show as ōsucceededö.

Square
When a transaction declines due to a lack of 3DS2 authentication, it will not be visible anywhere on the payment dashboard.

Upon authenticating the charge, a new transaction is created and displayed on the Square Transactions dashboard upon successful processing.

Braintree
If a payment fails due to 3DS2, the payment status displayed is "Processor Declined".

A second transaction will be created for the same amount to re-attempt with a "Settledö.

Because Braintree does not allow a failed transaction to be processed again, a new transaction is created to complete the customer authentication process. This results in two separate transactions (one declined and the other settled) in the transaction logs section.

Authorize.Net
3DS2 is not currently supported by Authorize.Net.



How to connect your providers and set up branding on Stripe
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-connect-your-providers-and-set-up-branding-on-stripe

How to connect your providers and set up branding on Stripe
Learn how to connect your providers and set up branding on Stripe.

Last updated on 06 Nov, 2024

In this article, you will learn how to:
Ģ Connect your providers on Stripe
Ģ Set up store branding on Stripe

Connecting Your Providers
You can connect your providers using the following details:
Ģ Bank account information
Ģ Debit card information
Ģ Redirect link authentication (manual connection)

To connect using a bank account or debit card information, the admin must provide information about your business and set your branding on your Stripe account.

Step 1: Provide Business Information

After selecting a bank account or debit card as your connection method, you must fill in two fields just below the Client ID.

290 Merchant Category Code (MCC): This is a four-digit number used to classify businesses by the type of goods or services they provide. It influences rewards, fees, and compliance in card transactions. Click here to learn more about MCC.
291 Product Description: Please describe the specific goods or services you offer to your customers. For example, you might offer a Standard and Premium version of your goods or services; each version would be a separate product. These descriptions can be used with prices to configure pricing in payment links, checkout, and subscriptions.

Step 2: Set Up Branding in Your Stripe Account

292 Access Branding Settings:
? Click this link to set branding, or click the settings wheel near the top right corner of the page.
293 Navigate to Product Settings:
? Scroll down to the "Product Settings" section and click on the "Connect" link.
294 Onboarding Interface:
? In the "Onboarding connect accounts" section, click on the "Onboarding interface" link.
295 Customize Onboarding Experience:
? Click on the ōCustomizeö link.
? Fill out the ōOnboarding experienceö form by providing the following details:
Ģ Business Name: Enter your business name.
Ģ Icon: Upload an icon that represents your business.
Ģ Logo: Upload your business logo.

By following these steps, you will have successfully connected your providers and set up your branding on your Stripe account.



Make (Integromat) integration guide
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/make-integromat-integration-guide

Make (Integromat) integration guide
This guide will walk you through the process of integrating your BookingKoala account with over 1800+ applications using Make (Integromat), including popular tools like Mailchimp, QuickBooks, and Google Calendar, GMail, Twillio.

Last updated on 22 Oct, 2024

In this guide, you will learn:
Ģ What Make (Integromat) is
Ģ How to create a Make (Integromat) account
Ģ How to connect your Make (Integromat) account to BookingKoala
Ģ How to create your first Scenario

What is Make (Integromat)?
Integromat, now rebranded as Make, is a versatile automation platform that connects various applications and services, enabling you to automate workflows and increase productivity. It allows users to automate repetitive tasks without the need for coding, making it accessible to both technical and non-technical users. These automated workflows, known as "Scenarios," detect specific events and trigger one or more actions in response.

Scenarios are particularly useful for tasks that require frequent repetition, such as sending reminders to your team or regularly transferring information between apps, like updating a spreadsheet or calendar.

By integrating Make (Integromat) with your BookingKoala account, you can automate various operationsŚsuch as adding, canceling, or rescheduling bookingsŚacross connected apps.

Supported Triggers in BookingKoala:
Ģ New Booking
Ģ Updated Booking
Ģ Completed Booking
Ģ Charged Booking
Ģ Declined Booking Charge
Ģ Cancelled Booking
Ģ Booking Card Hold
Ģ Delete Booking
Ģ New Provider
Ģ Updated Provider
Ģ Deleted Provider
Ģ Provider Payout
Ģ New Quote
Ģ New Rating
Ģ New Customer
Ģ Updated Customer
Ģ New Invoice
Ģ Updated Invoice
Ģ Invoice Charge

Example: You can set up a Scenario that adds a new customer to your Mailchimp account whenever a customer is added to BookingKoala. Another Scenario can sync the data with your QuickBooks account when a booking is charged. The possibilities for automation are extensive, allowing you to streamline various aspects of your business.

Setting Up a Make (Integromat) Account
If you donÆt already have a Make (Integromat) account, youÆll need to create one. Follow these steps to get started:

296 Visit the Make (Integromat) sign-up page.
297 You can sign up using Google, Facebook, or GitHub by clicking their respective icons, or you can manually create an account by entering your name, email, and password, and then clicking the "Sign up for FREE" button.
298 Check your email for a verification message from noreply@make.com and click the "Verify Email" button.
299 Complete the setup by providing additional details such as your role, goals, automation experience, and company size. Click "Get started" to finalize your account setup.

Connecting Your Make (Integromat) Account to BookingKoala
To connect your Make (Integromat) account to BookingKoala, follow these steps:

300 Navigate to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations in your BookingKoala account.
301 Scroll down to the Make section and click the "Click Here" button.
302 Click the red "Disabled" button to enable the integration.
303 A confirmation popup will appearŚselect "Yes." A green notification will confirm that the Make (Integromat) app has been successfully enabled.
304 Click the blue "Generate API Key" button. This will create a unique key to link your BookingKoala account with Make (Integromat).
305 Copy the generated API key by clicking the "Copy" button.

Creating Your First Scenario
306 Click "Create a new scenario."
307 Select the BookingKoala app and choose a trigger from the following list:
? New Booking
? Updated Booking
? Completed Booking
? Charged Booking
? Declined Booking Charge
? Cancelled Booking
? Booking Card Hold
? Delete Booking
? New Provider
? Updated Provider
? Deleted Provider
? Provider Payout
? New Quote
? New Rating
? New Customer
? Updated Customer
? New Invoice
? Updated Invoice
? Invoice Charge
308 A popup window will appearŚclick "Create a webhook" and then "Create a connection."
309 In the popup window, link your accounts by entering the API key you copied from BookingKoala into the first box and your Bookingkoala account's subdomain into the second box.
? For example, if your subdomain is "demo2.bookingkoala.com", type "demo2" into box 2.
310 Click "Save" to proceed. Your BookingKoala account is now connected to the Scenario.

Adding Another App
311 Click the plus sign (+) to add another app or module to the Scenario.
312 Use the search bar to find the app where you want the action to occur, or select it from the list.
313 Choose an Action Event that will be performed when the Scenario is triggered. The available actions depend on the functionality of the app youÆve selected.
? For example, to automatically add new bookings to your Google Calendar, you might select "Create an Event" as the action event.
314 Connect the selected app by signing in to your account. Some apps, like Google, may ask for permission to connectŚclick "Allow" to proceed.
315 Fill in the required fields by typing in values manually or selecting them from a list of existing values. These fields may vary according to the chosen app. Once all fields are filled, click "OK."
316 To finalize the automation, click the "Save" button, then toggle the ScenarioÆs switch from "Off" to "On".

This Scenario will now automatically execute whenever the specified event occurs in your BookingKoala account.

Details Synced to Make (Integromat) The following tables contain the specific details that are synced to Make (Integromat). The right column shows an example, while the left column lists the detail's name.

Customer
id1234first_nameJohnlast_nameDoecompany_nameCleaning with Meaningprimary_emailjohn_doe@example.comgendermaleprimary_phone_number1234567890addressChicago Avenuezipcode/postal code60601cityMinneapolisstateMinnesotaapt25AnoteThis is a test note for the customer.is_new0/1tags[Onetime, Recurring, Important]other_emails[john_doe1@example.com, john_doe2@example.com]other_phone_numbers[1234586890, 5656434354]alt_phone_number7468562544created_on02/26/2024refferal_codeJohnDBookings
id1001industryHome CleaningformForm 1location_typeService Area/Merchant LocationlocationChicagozipcode/postal code60601service_categoryFlat Rate Serviceis_service_hourlyyes/noservice_hourly_value120frequencyEvery 4 weeksoccurrenceonetime/recurringfrequency_repeat_slugevery_4_weekscreated_on1619674829booking_date2021-04-16arrival_time15:00:00dayFridaytip$10.30parking$5.00bonus$7.00provider_ids[3, 4]provider_emailtest_provider@example.comprovider_emails[test_provider@example.com, test_provider2@example.com]customer_id544customer_nameJohn Doecustomer_first_nameJohncustomer_last_nameDoecustomer_emailjohn_doe@example.comcustomer_phone1234567890tags[Onetime, Recurring, Important]addressChicago AvenuecityMinneapolisaddress_zipcode/postal code60601stateMinnesotaapt25Akey_infoat_home/hiddenkey_notePlease be sure to lock the doors when you leave!key_with_providertrue/falsealert_charge_nowtrue/falsealert_charge_textalert! you are about to charge this bookingalert_reminder_admintrue/falseadmin_email_reminder_date2021-04-16admin_email_reminder_day_before2admin_email_reminder_hours_before4admin_email_reminder_messageTest reminder messagecoupon$20.00gift_card$100.00referral_discount$50.00referral_amount$20.00adjusted_price$150.50adjusted_time120payment_methodexisting_credit_cardnew_credit_cardcashspecial_notesThis is a test special note.provider_notePlease check all stuff correctly after cleaning.booking_noteTake extra care with this booking.service_total$115.00expedited_amount$50.00frequency_discount_amount$10.00discounted_total$155booking_tax$12.30service_fee$10.00total$177.30rating4.5reviewYou did an awesome job!review_date1619674829booking_source"Staff" if booking is added from admin dashboard by staff member"Admin" if booking is added by admin"Customer" if booking is added by customer"Recurring Booking - Automatic booking added by scheduler" if booking is added by system on booking completion in a recurring scheduleextra_tip$0price_adjustment_noteThis is a test price adjustment note.time_adjustment_noteThis is a test time adjustment note.note_from_providerThis is a test note from provider.bonus_reasonThis is a test bonus note.created_by10cancelled_byAdmin / Staff / Customer / Booking - Automatic booking cancelled by systemcancellation_commentsTest comments for cancellationstatuscompleted / charged / cancelled / declined / unassigned / deleted / upcomingprovider_pay$20additional_charge$20booking_iso_date_time2024-05-27T08:00card_last4_digits4242company_nameTest Companyis_first0 / 1private_customer_noteThis is a test private customer notepricing_parameterId : 4Name: 2Quantity: 1area_parameterName: square footageQuantity: 3partial_cleaningName: Full bathroomQuantity: 1extrasName: Deep CleaningQuantity: 1itemsName: item1Quantity: 3after_discounted_total$345.43custom_fields1_1: customField Vlauename_id_wise_custom_fieldscustomField Name: customField valuename_id_wise_custom_fields_pricecustomField Name: $10.00custom_fields_objName: customField NameValue: customFieldValuecanceled_bookingssingle/allcancellation_reasonTest Reasonestimated_job_length01:30coupon_codeSpecial20cancellation_fee$50.00provider_cancellation_fee$10.00location_id1is_new1provider_detailsId: 1Name: test providerEmail id: testprovider@dispostable.comPhone number: 3454557676Amount: $0total_tipTip during booking: $10Tip after booking: $0pricing_params_objBathroom: 1Bedroom: 2partial_cleaning_objFull bedroom: 1Canceled Booking
All fields from booking trigger +canceled_bookingssingle/allcancellation_reasonNot at homeProvider
id1234first_nameLisalast_nameBallcompany_nameCleaning with Meaningemail_idlisa_ball@example.comgenderfemalephone_number1234567890addressChicago Avenuezipcode/postal code60601cityMinneapolisstateMinnesotaapt25AnoteThis is a test note for the provider.tags[Onetime, Recurring, Important]speednewcategoryIC / W2team_names[Team1, Team2]provider_typeSingle / Teamstatusactivatedalt_phone_number123456789priority10reimbursementsSAProvider Payout
provider_id1234date_sent2023-03-27nameLisa Ballemail_idlisa_ball@example.comamount$20payment_dates2023-03-27 To 2023-03-28tags[Test, Important]adjusted_amount$20adjustment_reasonTest adjustment reasonpayment_methodcash_checkbookings101, 102is_adjustedtrue / falseInvoice
invoice_number0019created_byAdmininvoice_tip_provider_app_notiyesstart_datelisa_ball@example.cominvoice_tip_provider_sms2024-09-04frequencyrecurring/onetimeinvoice_typecustom/bookingscustomer_nameTest Customercustomer_email_addresstestcustomer@dispostable.comcustomer_phone_number6434565664customer_companyTest CompanyaddressChicago Avenue, Minneapolis, MN, USAcityMinneapolisaddress_zipcode55404stateMinnesotaapt123Apayment_statusPartially Paid/Paidcard_on_fileyes/nonoteTest noteissue_date2023-12-24due_date2023-12-24payment_methodCard/Cashinvoice_tip_provider_emailyes/noinvoice_paid_customer_smsyes/noinvoice_paid_customer_emailyes/noend_date2023-12-24send_customer_emailyes/nosend_customer_smsyes/noattach_pdfyes/noremind_cust_for_invoiceyes/noinvoice_paid_admin_emailyes/noinvoice_paid_admin_smsyes/nototal_amount$187invoice_paid_amount$95total_tip$20tip_typeSpecific tipdivide_combine_tip_withAll Bookingsmin_tip_amount$10partial_pay_split_in3 partscard_last4_digits4242tags[tags1,tags2]form_parametersbooking_id, service_date, total, industry, frequency, service, extras, custom_section, pricing_parameter, excludesrecurring_schedule_repeat_typeRepeat every 1 monthiso_due_date3/9/2024 0:00:00partial_pay_split_percentage[25%,50%]billing_emails[testcust1@example.com,testcust2@example.com]booking_ids[1,5,3]cc_emails[testcust1@example.com,testcust2@example.com]remindersDate: 2023-12-24,Type: on_dueline_itemsItem name: item1Unit: 2Total: 23custom_fieldsSub Total: $120Discount: $5Total tax: $10no_of_payments3allow_partial_payyesallow_tip_by_customeryesNOTE: There are some functions that you can use to format the synced data in Make (Integromat). Here is a link to the article.



Sync bookings to Google Calendar
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/sync-bookings-to-google-cal

Sync bookings to Google Calendar
Learn how to set up and use the Google Calendar integration to sync bookings from BookingKoala.

Last updated on 16 Apr, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Understand Google Calendar integration
Ģ Create and link Google Calendar credentials
Ģ Connect your Google Calendar account
Ģ Map booking fields to Google Calendar events
Ģ Sync bookings in bulk to your Google Calendar
Ģ Enable automatic booking synchronization
Ģ Set up Google Calendar for providers and staff
Ģ Stop Google Calendar syncing
Ģ Change your Google account
Ģ Resolve syncing errors

Overview
You can now sync your BookingKoala bookings with Google Calendar. This synchronization is one-way from BookingKoala to Google Calendar, meaning your bookings will appear on Google Calendar. Still, your personal Google Calendar appointments will not be visible in BookingKoala.

Create and Link Google Calendar Credentials
Before you can set up Google Calendar integration, you must create and link your Google Calendar credentials. Follow these steps:

317 Navigate to Apps & Integrations:
317.1 Go to ō Settings > Apps & Integrations > Google Calendar ö.
317.2 Enable Google Calendar.
318 Add Google Calendar Credentials:
? On the ō Add Credentials ö pop-up, click the blue "Click here" link at the bottom left. This will redirect you to a Google Set Up Your Environment article explaining how to set up an environment. Please read the entire article and then follow the steps:

Set Up Your Project in the Google Developer Console
319 Go to Google Developer Console:
? Open your web browser and go to the Google Developer Console.
320 Create a New Project or use an existing one:
320.1 Click on the ōSelect a Projectö drop-down at the top of the page.
321 Click the ō New Project ö button.
322 Enter a name for your project (e.g., "My Calendar Web App").
323 (Optional) Select a billing account if required.
324 Click ō Create ö.
325 Go to APIs & Services from the PINNED PRODUCTS listing.
326 Enable the Google Calendar API:
326.1 In the project dashboard, click ōEnable APIs and Servicesö.
327 Search for "Google Calendar API".
328 Click on the Google Calendar API result and click ōEnableö.
329 Set Up OAuth Consent Screen:
329.1 In the left-hand menu, click ōOAuth consent screenö.
330 Choose ōExternalö and click ōCreateö.
331 Fill out the required information:
331.1 App name : Enter the name of your application.
331.2 User support email: Enter a support email address.
331.3 App logo: (Optional) Upload a logo for your app.
331.4 Scopes for Google APIs : Click ōAdd or Remove Scopesö and add the necessary scopes.
331.5 Add the selected scopes.
332 Click ōSave and Continueö.
333 Create OAuth 2.0 Credentials:
333.1 In the left-hand menu, click, " Credentialsö.
334 Click ōCreate Credentialsö and select ōOAuth 2.0 Client IDö.
335 Choose ōweb applicationö as the application type.
336 Enter a name for the OAuth 2.0 client (e.g., "Your Business Name").
337 If you have connected a custom domain, add your domains in the Authorized JavaScript Origins and Authorized Redirect URIs fields.
You can find the domains details from:
Settings > Design Forms And Websites > Change Your Domains
Add the details like on your google project as explained below:
Note: If you have connected a subdomain (e.g.,https://bookings.yourwebsitedomain.com), you do not need to include "www."
Once the project is configured, you must publish the app. To publish the app, navigate to the OAuth Consent Screen:
In the publishing status, click Publish App to publish.
To publish the app, you will need to submit the following information to Google:
Please note, app verification by Google may take some time. While the verification is in progress, you can use the test mode. To enable test mode, add the email addresses (e.g., yours, provider, and staff) that you want to allow for Google Calendar integration.
338 Download the Credentials:
338.1 Once the OAuth 2.0 client ID is created, download the credentials file by clicking the ōDownload JSONö button.
339 Save this file securely, as you will need it to configure your application.

Link the Credentials
340 In BookingKoala, go to ō Settings > Apps & Integrations > Add Credentials ö
341 Browse for the credentials file and click the blue ōAdd Credentialsö button.
342 A green notification will confirm that the credentials have been successfully added. Click ōContinueö to proceed to the Google Calendar Integration page.

Update the Credentials
343 If you already have credentials and want to update them, click the ōUpdate Credentialsö button.
344 A warning popup will inform you that updating your credentials will permanently delete all your existing Google Calendar accounts and stop syncing. To resume syncing, you'll need to reconnect the accounts. To update your credentials, type ō CONFIRM ö and click the ōProceedö button.
345 Now browse your new credentials file and Click the ōUpdate credentialsö button to update the credentials.

Connect Your Google Calendar Account
346 Grant permission to connect to your account when the OAuth consent screen appears.
347 After a successful connection, your account will be listed in the Account section.

Map Booking Fields to Google Calendar Events
In the ōMap Fieldsö section, provide the following details:
348 Calendar: Select the calendar you want to sync from your connected Google account.
349 Summary : Define the event title. You can type manually or choose from the booking fields. For example, use ō: CustomerNameö to include the booking ID and customer name in the event title.
350 Description : Add detailed booking information using fields like frequency, service category, pricing parameters, and status.
351 Location: Include the booking location.
352 Color: Select the color in which the event will appear on your Google Calendar NOTE : The calendar event date and time will match the booking date and time.

Bulk Syncing Bookings on Google Calendar
You can sync all your upcoming bookings in bulk to Google Calendar:
353 Click on ōSync bulk bookingsö and select the date range of the bookings you want to sync.
354 Upon successful syncing, you will receive an email notification from BookingKoala.
355 You can monitor the syncing progress in the system logs under Logs > System Logs.

Automatic Sync Events
Bookings will automatically sync under the following circumstances:
356 Active Bookings: All active bookings will be shown in the sync.
357 Recurring Series: Forecasted bookings in a recurring series will sync when they become active.
358 Other sync events:
358.1 Booking is rescheduled
358.2 Booking assignment(s)/details are changed
358.3 Booking is canceled
358.4 Booking is resumed

Setting Up Google Calendar for Providers
To enable your providers to view their assigned bookings on Google Calendar:
359 Go to ō Settings > Apps & Integrations > Google Calendar Integration > Provider Tab .ö
360 Select ōYesö to enable Google Calendar syncing for providers.
361 Map the fields you want providers to see on their calendars, such as event summary, description, location, and color.
362 Either the provider or you must connect the Google account and select the appropriate Google Calendar. For any particular provider, go to the ōApps & Integrationsö tab, add the account, and select the map fields for the provider. Bulk sync the provider bookings if needed.
363 Perform translation for the provider map fieldÆs static texts by clicking the ōTranslateö button. Fields for the translation will be obtained from the published map fields. If you want to get the new updated fields, click the ōPublish map fieldsöbutton to publish them first and then perform translation.
Select the fields you want to translate in the translate popup. After selecting fields, click on theōTranslateö button to translate the fields and then click the ōSaveö button to save them. Now the map fieldÆs static texts will appear translated in the events. Translated fields will only be displayed in the event only if the translation is performed in the provider's default language. Note: Providers can only connect their accounts and select the calendar for syncing. They cannot modify the mapped fields.

Set up Google Calendar for Staff Members
Staff members can use Google Calendar only if they can edit Apps and Integrations . The syncing of bookings to a staff memberÆs Google Calendar is also dependent on their permissions, such as the ability to view upcoming bookings and job history.

Stop Syncing on Google Calendar
To stop syncing on Google Calendar:
364 Disable Google Calendar to stop syncing for all users.
365 Remove the Google account from ō Settings > Apps & Integrations > Google Calendar Integration > Google Calendar ö. Syncing will stop once the account is removed.

Change Google Account
You can change your Google account at any time by following the steps to connect to a new account.

Handling Sync Errors
If any syncing errors occur:
366 Error Notification: You will receive an email notification detailing the error.
367 Retry Sync: Inside the notification, click the ōRetry Syncö button. You will be redirected to the bulk sync page with the dates of the failed events.
368 Error Messages: If the error persists, error messages will appear in the error toaster.

You can manage these notifications in Settings > Notifications > Emails > Admin > General . Additionally, SMS notifications are available under Settings > Notifications > SMS > Admin > General.

For staff, the failed event notification is given under ō Settings > Notifications > Emails > Staff > Generalö.
Staff members will also be notified about any provider syncing failures.

By following these steps, you can effectively sync your bookings with Google Calendar and address any issues that arise during the process.



Sync events to Google Sheets
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/sync-events-to-google-sheets-3c102e43

Sync events to Google Sheets
Learn how to sync events to Google Sheets

Last updated on 06 Aug, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you to:

Ģ Understand the Google Sheets Integration.
Ģ Create and Link Google Sheets Credentials.
Ģ Create triggers for syncing events.
Ģ Update the triggers.
Ģ Stop Google Sheets syncing.
Ģ Manage failed events for the triggers.
Ģ Manage Google accounts.
Ģ Notifications.
Ģ Error messages and reasons.

Overview:
Google Sheets is a feature that allows you to sync your BookingKoala events to your Google Sheets. To start syncing, you will have to create a trigger. While creating a trigger, you have to choose an event and action you want to perform on Google Sheets. When the selected event is triggered in BookingKoala, an action will be performed on your Google Sheets.

This feature is available for all the plans with different numbers of limits per month to sync the events according to the plan selected. The event limit will be reset after a month automatically.

PlanEvent limitsStarter100 events /monthGrowing1000 events /monthPremium10000 events /monthYou can track the synced events and the total number of days left to reset the usage in the triggers listing page.

Create and Link Google Sheets Credentials:
Before you can set up Google Sheets triggers, you must create and link your Google Sheets credentials. Follow these steps:

1. Navigate to Apps & Integrations:

Ģ Go to ō Settings > General > Apps & Integrations > Google Sheets ö.
Ģ Enable Google Sheets.

2. Add Google Sheets Credentials:

Ģ On the ō Add Credentials ö pop-up, click the blue " Click here " link at the bottom left. This will redirect you to a Google Set up your environment article explaining how to set up an environment. Please read the entire article and then follow the steps:

Set Up Your Project in Google Developer Console:
1. Go to Google Developer Console:

Ģ Open your web browser and go to the Google Developer Console.

2. Create a New Project or use an existing one:

Ģ Click on the ō Select a Project ö drop-down at the top of the page.
Ģ Click the ō New Project ö button.
Ģ Enter a name for your project (e.g., "My Sheets Web App").
Ģ (Optional) Select a billing account if required.
Ģ Click ō Create ö.
Ģ Go to APIs & Services from the PINNED PRODUCTS listing.

3. Enable the Google Drive API & Google Sheets API:

Ģ In the project dashboard, click ō Enable APIs and Services ö.
Ģ Search for " Google Drive API & Google Sheets API " and ō Enable ö both the apis.

4. Set Up OAuth Consent Screen:

a) In the left-hand menu, click ō OAuth consent screen ö.

b) Set up Project Configuration:

Ģ App name: Enter the name of your application.
Ģ User support email: Enter a support email address.
Ģ Audience: Select (External).
Ģ Contact Information: Add an email for Google to notify you about any changes to your project.
Ģ Finish: Select Agree to Google Api Services Policy.
Ģ Create: Then, click on create to complete the project configuration.

c) Branding: Set up your app information and logo.

Ģ App information: Set up app information if not already set. ( App name and User support email).
Ģ App logo (optional): To display your brand logo in the OAuth content screen while adding a Google account in the Google Sheets integration page.
Ģ Add Authorized domains, or it will be added in the next steps.
Ģ Click ō Save ö.

d) Clients: Then go to ō Create client ö to create the client.

Ģ Choose ō Web application ö as the application type.
Ģ Enter a name for the OAuth 2.0 client (e.g., "Your Business Name") if you have not set it yet.
Ģ In the Authorized JavaScript origins , click ō Add URI ö and enter your website domain(e.g., https://www.yourwebsite.com ).
Ģ In the Authorized redirect URIs section , click ō Add URI ö and enter your website domain as the redirect URL (e.g., https://www.yourwebsite.com ).
Ģ Click ō Create ö.

Important: Make sure to download the OAuth client JSON by clicking on ō Download JSON ö. This will be used to upload the credentials in BookingKoala's ōThird party integration pageö.

Note: If you have connected a custom domain or a subdomain (e.g.,https://yourwebsitedomain.com or https://bookings.yourwebsitedomain.com), you do not need to include "www." for a subdomain

e) Data Access: Set up scopes (permissions) that are required for the Google Sheets access for the Google account.

Ģ Scopes for Google APIs: Click ō Add or Remove Scopes ö and add the necessary scopes.
Ģ Add the selected scopes (as mentioned in the screenshot below) and click on ōUpdateö below. ( Note: Make sure to enable the required apiÆs first as mentioned in the previous steps.)
Ģ Click ō Save ö.

f) Audience: Once the project is configured, you can publish the app. To publish the app, navigate to the ō Audience ö. To publish the app, please refer to the ō OAuth App Verification Help Center ö.

Ģ In the publishing status, click ō Publish App ö to publish.
Ģ To publish the app, you will need to submit the following information to Google:

Please note , app verification by Google may take some time. While the verification is in progress, you can use the test mode. To enable test mode, add the email addresses that you want to allow for Google Sheets integration. In testing mode, you can use Google Sheets for the added accounts without publishing your app.

Link the Credentials
1. Go to Settings > General > Apps & Integrations > Add Credentials

2. Browse for the credentials file and click the ō Add Credentials ö button.

3. A green notification will confirm that the credentials have been successfully added. Click ō Continue ö to proceed to the Google Sheets Integration page.

Update the credentials
Ģ If you already have credentials and want to update them, click the ō Update Credentials ö button.
Ģ A warning pop-up will inform you that updating your credentials will permanently delete all your existing Google Sheets accounts and will stop syncing. To resume syncing, you'll need to reconnect the accounts. To proceed with updating your credentials, type ō CONFIRM ö and click the ō Proceed ö button.
Ģ Now, browse your new credentials file and click the ō Update credentials ö button to update the credentials.

Create triggers for syncing events:
After uploading the credentials, you will be redirected to the Google Sheets integration page by clicking the ō Continue ö button. In the Google Sheets page, click on the ō Create a trigger ö button at the top right corner to create a new trigger.

After clicking the ō Create a trigger ö button, a create trigger sidebar will be opened with three tabs.

1. Events & Actions: In this tab, you can enter the name for your trigger. Choose an event from the events listing and then choose the action that you want to perform when the event is triggered.

2. Account: Choose or connect a Google account in which you want to select the Google Sheet for syncing.

3. Map fields: In this section, you have to select a Spreadsheet and then a Worksheet to map the fields for syncing. Now the rest of the map fields will be shown based on the Action selected in the ō Events & Actions ö tab. You will be able to map the fields based on the event selected from the ō Events & Actions ö tab. Each event has its own fields to map. Like events related to booking have booking fields, events related to the provider have provider fields, and so on..

If you select an event of a type like booking, and then you map the fields of that event, and then you select an event of a type other than the previously selected type, then your filled map fields will be reset.

Action-based Map fields:

Ģ Create spreadsheet row: If you have selected this action, then you will be able to see the ō Header map fields ö. Header map fields are the fields in which you can insert or write the data you want to show when a new spreadsheet row is created. You will have to fill in at least one of the header map fields. Also, you will be able to create a new spreadsheet in this case by clicking on the ō Create new ö button in the spreadsheet dropdown. By clicking the ōCreate newö button, a pop-up will open where you can add a spreadsheet title, a worksheet title, and the headers for the worksheet. You can add headers by clicking the ō+ö button in the headers. Also, you will be able to remove the headers by clicking the delete button.

After filling in all the data, click the ō Create sheet ö button to create a new spreadsheet.

Ģ Update spreadsheet row: On selecting update spreadsheet row, you will be able to see ō Search header ö, ō Search field ö, and ō Header map fields ö fields. In the ō Search header ö field, you can select a Google Sheet header to search data in that headerÆs column. Then, in the ō Search field ,ö you have to enter the exact data you want to match in the selected ō Search header ö column. Also, there will be a question: ō Do you want to insert a new row in case search field data is not found? ö By default, its value is ō No ö. On selecting ō Yes ö, if the mentioned ō Search field ö data is not found in the selected ō Search header ö column, then a new row will be created in the worksheet.

Then, in the ō Header map fields ö, you can enter the data that you want to replace with the matched worksheet row data. You will have to fill in at least one of the header map fields.

Ģ Clear spreadsheet row: On selecting this option, you will be able to see ō Search header ö and ō Search field ö fields in the map fields tab. In the ō Search header ö field, you can select a header in which you want to search the entered data in the ō Search field ö. ō Search field ö is a field in which you can enter text or insert data to find in the ō Search header ö column.

4. Save & Publish: In the ō Map fields ö tab, there is a button to Save & Publish the created trigger data. After clicking this button, your trigger will activate, and the syncing of your events will start. You can see the created trigger in the triggers listing.

Update the triggers:

On the click of the ō Edit ö button from the triggers listing, you can edit a trigger.

A sidebar will open with the prefilled data, and you can edit any field of the trigger from this sidebar. Some fields are dependent on other fields, so changing one field can reset the other dependent fields of the trigger.

For example:

Ģ Event: Changing the event from one type to another ( eg, from event of type booking to event of type provider or invoice, or customer) will reset all the mapped data from the map fields, like from the Search header and Header map fields.
Ģ Action: On changing the action, your fields in the Map fields tab will change based on the action selected.
Ģ Account: On changing the account, all the fields like Spreadsheet and Worksheet dependent upon the account will reset. You need to select them again.
Ģ Spreadsheet: On changing the spreadsheet, this will reset the worksheet field.
Ģ Worksheet: Changing the worksheet will change the header map fields. But the values of header map fields will remain there in case the header map fields are not reset before (like in case of a changing event). This will also reset the Search header field because it depends on the worksheet.

In the end, you can save and publish the changes by clicking the ō Save & Publish ö button.

Update trigger name and status:

If you want to update the trigger name and status, you can directly update them from the listing.

Ģ Trigger name: From the triggers listing, with the trigger name, you will be able to see an edit sign.

On clicking the edit sign, a pop-up will open. You can now enter a name that you want to update and show in the listing. On clicking the ō Save ö button, the trigger name will be updated.

Ģ Trigger status: If you want to enable or disable the trigger to start or stop events syncing for that trigger. You can directly do it from the trigger listing by just clicking the status switch.

Stop Google Sheets syncing:

There are different ways to stop syncing for Google Sheets events based on what you want to stop syncing for.

Ģ Stop syncing for a single trigger: If you want to stop the syncing for a single trigger, then there are three ways to do that:

? First, you can disable the status for the trigger. It will stop the syncing for that trigger. You can enable it later.
? Second, you can delete the trigger. On deleting the trigger, syncing will stop for that trigger. You need to create a new trigger to start syncing again.
? Third, you can delete the Google account from the ō Manage accounts ö page associated with the trigger to stop syncing for the trigger. But keep in mind, this will also stop the syncing for the triggers that use the deleted account.
? To start syncing for these triggers again, you need to add the Google accounts for each trigger, again by editing the triggers.
Ģ Stop syncing for the Google account-specific trigger: If you want to stop syncing for all the triggers for a Google account, you can achieve it using two ways.

? Either you can disable the triggers' status manually one by one and enable them later to start syncing again.
? Or you can delete the Google account from the ōManage accountsö page to stop syncing for all the triggers using that account.
? To start syncing again, you need to add the account for each trigger one by one by editing the triggers.
Ģ Stop syncing for all the triggers: To achieve this, you can disable the status for Google Sheets from the ō Apps & Integrations ö page. To start the syncing again, you can just enable Google Sheets again.

Note: Please note that on updating the credentials, all your Google Sheets accounts will be deleted permanently, and the syncing will stop. To start syncing again, you need to add them one by one for each trigger.

Manage failed events for the triggers:

You can see all your failed events in the Failed events page. You can redirect to the Failed events page by clicking the ō Failed events ö button from the triggers listing page.

Apply filters:

Ģ Trigger filter: You can get all the failed events for a specific trigger by selecting the trigger from the trigger filter. Select ō All ö to get all the failed events.
Ģ Date filter: You can get the failed events between the selected date range from the date filter.
Ģ Retry syncing: You can retry the syncing for failed events in bulk or one by one. To perform syncing again one by one, you need to click the dropdown in the failed event listing and click on the ō Retry event ö option. This will perform syncing on that event again.

To perform syncing in bulk, you can select multiple events or select all the events from the listing and click on the ō Retry events ö button at the top of the listing to perform syncing for the selected events again.

Ģ Delete events : As in retry syncing, we can sync events in bulk or one by one; similarly, we can delete the events. So, to delete events one by one, you need to click on the dropdown in the failed events listing and will have to click on ō Delete event ö to delete the event.

To delete the events in bulk, you need to select the events you want to delete and then click on the ō Delete events ö button at the top of the listing. This will delete all the selected events.

Note: Please note that failed events will be permanently deleted 1 month after their creation date. Please make sure to sync them before they are deleted.

Manage Google accounts:

To manage your Google accounts, go to the manage accounts page by clicking the ōManage accounts ö button from the trigger listing page.

On this page, you can connect a new account by clicking on the ō Add account ö button at the top. Or you can reconnect your expired account or delete the connected Google account.

Ģ Add account: You can click on the ō Add account ö button at the top of the page and connect a new Google account. After adding a new account, the account will be displayed in the Manage Accounts page. Also, you will be able to select this account while creating or updating your trigger.
Ģ Reconnect: If your account expires, you will be able to see a reconnect page in the accounts listing. You can click on the reconnect icon to reconnect it.
Ģ Delete account: If you want to delete your Google account, you can click on the delete button (trash bin) in the accounts listing. This will open a warning pop-up to confirm the delete account process. If you confirm it, your account will be permanently deleted.

Notifications:

Ģ Email: You will get an email notification whenever a Google Sheets event fails to sync. To enable/disable email notifications for the Google Sheets failed events, go to: Settings > Notifications > Email > Admin > General
Ģ SMS: To enable/disable SMS notifications, go to: Settings > Notifications > SMS > Admin > General

You can also send email notifications to the staff by enabling it from the per-staff notifications section. To enable/disable email notifications for staff, go to: Settings > Staff > Staff Members > Edit Staff > Notifications

Error messages and reasons:

Here you can find some error messages with reasons that you can face while working with Google Sheets. This will help you to debug the error.

1. Message: ōUnable to parse range: Sheet41!A:A.ö
Reason: a. The worksheet ōSheet41ö is deleted from the spreadsheet.
b. The worksheet name is changed and is not updated on the trigger.

2. Message: ōRequested entity was not found.ö
Reason: The Spreadsheet was deleted permanently. (For temporary moves to trash, syncing will still work.)

3. Message: ōRequest had invalid authentication credentials. Expected OAuth 2 access token, login cookie, or other valid authentication credential. See Integrating Google Sign-In into your web app | Authentication.ö OR: ōToken has been expired or revokedö.
Reason: Access to the user's Google account has expired or been revoked.

4. Message: ōGoogle Sheets API has not been used in project 7596ģ. before or it is disabled. Enable it by visiting the Google Cloud console , then retry. If you enabled this API recently, wait a few minutes for the action to propagate to our systems and retry.ö
Reason: ōGoogle Sheets API is not enabled for the provided credentials.ö

5. Message: ōQuota exceeded for quota metric 'Write requests' and limit 'Write requests per minute per user' of service 'sheets.googleapis.com' for consumer 'project_number:22824ģ'.ö
Reason: a. Quota limit has been exceeded, i.e, Google Sheets api request limit has been exceeded. Usage limits | Google Sheets sheets quota and limits.

6. Message: ōThe service is currently unavailable.ö Or ōInternal Error Encounteredö
Reason: This error indicates that the request reached the Google Sheets side, and their service was unavailable to process the request. This is beyond our control, as the error encountered is on their side.

By following these steps, you can effectively sync your events with Google Sheets, and please feel free to address any issues that may arise during the process.

If you have any questions or need further help, feel free to reach out to our support team.



Connecting Xero to BookingKoala
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/xero-integration

Connecting Xero to BookingKoala
Learn how to integrate your Xero account with BookingKoala and manage the syncing of payments efficiently.

Last updated on 08 Aug, 2025

This article will guide you through:
Ģ Connecting your Xero account to BookingKoala.
Ģ Enabling and configuring payment syncing for different entities (booking, gift card, custom invoice, and separate charge).
Ģ Syncing payments automatically or manually.
Ģ Stopping payment syncing when needed.

What is Xero?
Xero is powerful online accounting software for businesses, automating invoicing, bank reconciliations, and reporting. Get real-time financial insights, track expenses, and keep accurate records ¢ all in one place ¢ to simplify cash flow management and tax preparation.

What you can do with Xero:
Ģ Automate tasks like invoicing, bank reconciliations, and reporting
Ģ Get up-to-date financial data for a full picture of your business
Ģ Keep accurate records in a single place for easier tax returns

How to Integrate Xero with BookingKoala?
Integrating your BookingKoala platform with Xero requires a Client ID and Client Secret Key from a Xero developer app. Follow the steps below to create a Xero developer app, generate the necessary credentials, and complete the integration process.

Step 1: Create a Xero Developer App and Generate Credentials

369 Sign Up for a Xero Developer Account:
Ģ Visit the Xero Developer Portal Sign-up page.
Ģ Complete the registration form with your details, including name, email, and company information.

370 Verify Your Email:
Ģ After signing up, check your email inbox for a verification message from Xero.
Ģ Open the email and click the verification button to confirm your account.

371 Activate Your Account:
Ģ After verifying your email, you will be prompted to create a password.
Ģ Choose a strong password and save it securely.
Ģ Click Activate your account to proceed.

372 Provide Business Details:
Ģ You will be asked to enter details about your business, such as business name and industry.
Ģ Choose whether to purchase a subscription or start with a free trial.
Ģ With this, an organisation will be created.

373 Answer Additional Questions:
Ģ Xero may ask questions about how you manage your accounting tasks.
Ģ Provide responses based on your current accounting practices.

374 Add a Bank Account:
Ģ You may be prompted to add a bank account.
Ģ You can add a bank account with or without a bank feed.

375 Go to the Xero Developer Portal and log in using your credentials.
376 Create a New App:
Ģ Click on Create New App to start the setup process.
Ģ Provide the following details:
? App Name: Enter a unique and meaningful name for your app.
? Integration Type: Select Web App.
? Company/Application URL: Enter the URL of your BookingKoala account.
? Redirect URL: You have to use https://account.bookingkoala.com/accounting/xeroconnect/ as a redirect URL.
Ģ Click Create App to finalize the setup.

377 Generate Client ID and Client Secret:
Ģ Once your app is created, go to the Configuration section.
Ģ Copy the Client ID displayed on the screen and save it securely.
Ģ Click on Generate a Client Secret and copy it immediately, as it will not be displayed again.
Ģ If you lose your secret key, you will need to generate a new one. However, after generating a new secret key, you have to reconnect Xero with BookingKoala.

Step 2: Connecting your Xero account
To connect your Xero account to BookingKoala, go to:
Settings > General > Apps & Integrations

Scroll down to the Xero box and toggle the switch to enable Xero integration.

Ģ Add Xero Credentials: Click on the Add Credentials button to open the credential entry form.
Ģ Paste the Client ID and Client Secret Key copied from the Xero Developer Portal.
Ģ Click Save to store the credentials.
Ģ Connect to Xero: Click the Continue button to proceed to the Xero integration page.
Ģ On the Xero integration page, click Connect to Xero. You will be redirected to XeroÆs authentication page.
Ģ Enter your Xero login credentials and click Log in. (If youÆre already logged into your Xero account, this step will be skipped.)
Ģ Once logged in, select the organization you want to connect with BookingKoala.
Ģ Click the Allow Access button to give permission for BookingKoala to connect to your Xero account.

Note: Each Xero organization can only be connected to one BookingKoala account. If the organization is already linked to another account, youÆll need to disconnect it there first.

Ģ After granting access, you will be redirected back to the Xero integration page in BookingKoala.
Ģ YouÆre now ready to enable syncing and configure your settings.

Enabling Xero Syncing
Once your Xero account is connected, you need to enable syncing and map the fields for each payment entity.

Step 1: Locate the Map Fields Section
Ģ On the Xero integration page, click on the Map Fields section to expand it.

Step 2: Enable Syncing for Each Entity
Ģ In the Map Fields section, you will see tabs for each entity, such as:
? Booking
? Gift card
? Separate charge
? Custom invoice
Ģ For each entity, toggle the Sync Status to enable syncing.

Step 3: Configure Required Fields For each entity you enabled, you must fill in the required fields:
Ģ Revenue Account: Select the appropriate account from the drop-down menu.
Ģ Bank Account: Choose the bank account where payments should be recorded in Xero.
Ģ Theme: (Optional) If applicable, choose a theme from the dropdown.
Ģ Description: Add a description or map specific fields to be included in the synced payment details.

Step 4: Save Your Settings
Ģ After filling out all the fields for an entity, click the Save button.
Ģ Repeat this process for each entity you want to sync.

Syncing Payments: Automatic and Manual
You can sync payments automatically or manually, depending on your preferences.

1. Automatic Syncing
Ģ Once your Xero account is connected and all required fields are configured in the Map Fields section, payments will automatically sync when processed in BookingKoala.
Ģ For example:
? Charging a booking.
? Purchasing a gift card.
? Charging a custom invoice and a separate charge.
? Processing a refund.
Ģ An invoice will be created in your Xero account for each payment. For each refund, a credit note will be created.

If a payment fails to sync automatically, you can manually sync it.

2. Manual Syncing

Sync Individual Payments To sync payments manually for specific entities:

378 Bookings:
Ģ Go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges > Bookings
Ģ Open the Actions dropdown and click the View accounting sync option.
Ģ In the pop-up, locate the unsynced payment and click the Sync button.
Ģ The payment status will update to Synced, and the Sync button will be removed.

379 Gift Cards:
Ģ Go to: Marketing > Gift Cards > Gift Cards
Ģ In the Actions dropdown, click Sync to Xero.

380 Separate Charges:
Ģ Go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges > Separate
Ģ In the Actions dropdown, click Sync to Xero.

381 Custom Invoices:
Ģ Go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices
Ģ Open the Actions dropdown and click Payment Logs.
Ģ In the pop-up, under the Actions column, click the Sync to Xero button.

Bulk Sync Payments To sync multiple payments at once:
382 Go to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations > Xero > Continue
383 On the Xero integration page, under the Bulk Sync section, click the ōBulk syncö blue button to open a pop-up.
384 Select the entities you want to sync (e.g., Booking, Gift card, Separate charge, and custom invoice).
385 Choose a start date and end date for the sync.
386 Click Sync to begin the bulk syncing process.

To check the status of bulk syncing:
Ģ Go to: Logs > System Logs
Ģ Click the eye icon to view the details of the transfer.
Ģ Under the logs, you will see a green "Completed" label added under the Activity column once the sync has finished.

Stopping Payment Syncing
You can stop syncing payments completely or for specific entities.

Stop All Syncing (Disconnect Xero)
387 Go to the Xero integration page.
388 Click the Disconnect button.
Ģ This will remove XeroÆs access to BookingKoala.
Ģ All syncing will stop immediately.

Stop Syncing for a Specific Entity
389 Go to: Settings -> General -> Apps & Integration-> "Map Field" section
390 Select the entity tab, you want to stop syncing.
391 Toggle the Sync Status to disable syncing for that entity.
Ģ Payments for that specific entity will no longer sync with Xero.



Connecting Xero to BookingKoala
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/connecting-xero-to-bookingkoala

Connecting Xero to BookingKoala
Learn how to integrate your Xero account with BookingKoala and manage the syncing of payments efficiently.

Last updated on 08 Aug, 2025

This article will guide you through:
Ģ Connecting your Xero account to BookingKoala.
Ģ Enabling and configuring payment syncing for different entities (booking, gift card, custom invoice, and separate charge).
Ģ Syncing payments automatically or manually.
Ģ Stopping payment syncing when needed.

What is Xero?
Xero is powerful online accounting software for businesses, automating invoicing, bank reconciliations, and reporting. Get real-time financial insights, track expenses, and keep accurate records ¢ all in one place ¢ to simplify cash flow management and tax preparation.

What you can do with Xero:-
Ģ Automate tasks like invoicing, bank reconciliations, and reporting
Ģ Get up-to-date financial data for a full picture of your business
Ģ Keep accurate records in a single place for easier tax returns

How to Integrate Xero with BookingKoala?
Integrating your BookingKoala platform with Xero requires a Client ID and Client Secret Key from a Xero developer app. Follow the steps below to create a Xero developer app, generate the necessary credentials, and complete the integration process.

Step 1: Create a Xero Developer App and Generate Credentials

1. Sign Up for a Xero Developer Account:
Ģ Visit the Xero Developer Portal Sign-up page.
Ģ Complete the registration form with your details, including name, email, and company information.

2. Verify Your Email:
Ģ After signing up, check your email inbox for a verification message from Xero.
Ģ Open the email and click the verification button to confirm your account.

3. Activate Your Account:
Ģ After verifying your email, you will be prompted to create a password.
Ģ Choose a strong password and save it securely.
Ģ Click Activate your account to proceed.

4. Provide Business Details:
Ģ You will be asked to enter details about your business, such as business name and industry.
Ģ Choose whether to purchase a subscription or start with a free trial.
Ģ With this, an organisation will be created.

5. Answer Additional Questions:
Ģ Xero may ask questions about how you manage your accounting tasks.
Ģ Provide responses based on your current accounting practices.

6. Add a Bank Account:
Ģ You may be prompted to add a bank account.
Ģ You can add a bank account with or without a bank feed.

7. Log in to Xero Developer Portal:
Ģ Go to the Xero Developer Portal and log in using your credentials.

8. Create a New App:
Ģ Click on Create New App to start the setup process.
Ģ Provide the following details:
? App Name: Enter a unique and meaningful name for your app.
? Integration Type: Select Web App.
? Company/Application URL: Enter the URL of your BookingKoala account.
? Redirect URL: You have to use https://account.bookingkoala.com/accounting/xeroconnect/ as a redirect URL.
Ģ Click Create App to finalize the setup.

9. Generate Client ID and Client Secret:
Ģ Once your app is created, go to the Configuration section.
Ģ Copy the Client ID displayed on the screen and save it securely.
Ģ Click on Generate a Client Secret and copy it immediately, as it will not be displayed again.
Ģ If you lose your secret key, you will need to generate a new one. However, after generating a new secret key, you have to reconnect Xero with BookingKoala.

Step 2: Connecting your Xero account
To connect your Xero account to BookingKoala, go to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations

Scroll down to the Xero box and toggle the switch to enable Xero integration.

Ģ Add Xero Credentials: Click on the Add Credentials button to open the credential entry form.
Ģ Paste the Client ID and Client Secret Key copied from the Xero Developer Portal.
Ģ Click Save to store the credentials.
Ģ Connect to Xero: Click the Continue button to proceed to the Xero integration page.
Ģ On the Xero integration page, click Connect to Xero. You will be redirected to XeroÆs authentication page.
Ģ Enter your Xero login credentials and click Log in . (If youÆre already logged into your Xero account, this step will be skipped.)
Ģ Once logged in, select the organization you want to connect with BookingKoala.
Ģ Click the Allow Access button to give permission for BookingKoala to connect to your Xero account.

Note: Each Xero organization can only be connected to one BookingKoala account. If the organization is already linked to another account, youÆll need to disconnect it there first.

Ģ After granting access, you will be redirected back to the Xero integration page in BookingKoala.
Ģ YouÆre now ready to enable syncing and configure your settings.

Enabling Xero Syncing
Once your Xero account is connected, you need to enable syncing and map the fields for each payment entity.

Step 1: Locate the Map Fields Section
Ģ On the Xero integration page, click on the Map Fields section to expand it.

Step 2: Enable Syncing for Each Entity
Ģ In the Map Fields section, you will see tabs for each entity, such as:
? Booking
? Gift card
? Separate charge
? Custom invoice
Ģ For each entity, toggle the Sync Status to enable syncing.

Step 3: Configure Required Fields For each entity you enabled, you must fill in the required fields:
Ģ Revenue Account: Select the appropriate account from the drop-down menu.
Ģ Bank Account: Choose the bank account where payments should be recorded in Xero.
Ģ Theme: (Optional) If applicable, choose a theme from the dropdown.
Ģ Description: Add a description or map specific fields to be included in the synced payment details.

Step 4: Save Your Settings
Ģ After filling out all the fields for an entity, click the Save button.
Ģ Repeat this process for each entity you want to sync.

Syncing Payments: Automatic and Manual
You can sync payments automatically or manually, depending on your preferences.

1. Automatic Syncing
Ģ Once your Xero account is connected and all required fields are configured in the Map Fields section, payments will automatically sync when processed in BookingKoala.
Ģ For example:
? Charging a booking.
? Purchasing a gift card.
? Charging a custom invoice and a separate charge.
? Processing a refund.
Ģ An invoice will be created in your Xero account for each payment. For each refund, a credit note will be created.

If a payment fails to sync automatically, you can manually sync it.

2. Manual Syncing

Sync Individual Payments To sync payments manually for specific entities:

1. Bookings:
Ģ Go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges > Bookings
Ģ Open the Actions dropdown and click the View accounting sync option.
Ģ In the pop-up, locate the unsynced payment and click the Sync button.
Ģ The payment status will update to Synced , and the Sync button will be removed.

2. Gift Cards:
Ģ Go to: Marketing > Gift Cards > Gift Cards
Ģ In the Actions dropdown, click Sync to Xero .

3. Separate Charges:
Ģ Go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges > Separate
Ģ In the Actions dropdown, click Sync to Xero .

4. Custom Invoices:
Ģ Go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices
Ģ Open the Actions dropdown and click Payment Logs.
Ģ In the pop-up, under the Actions column, click the Sync to Xero button.

Bulk Sync Payments To sync multiple payments at once:
392 Go to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations > Xero > Continue
393 On the Xero integration page, under the Bulk Sync section, click the ōBulk syncö blue button to open a pop-up.
394 Select the entities you want to sync (e.g., Booking, Gift card, Separate charge, and custom invoice).
395 Choose a start date and end date for the sync.
396 Click Sync to begin the bulk syncing process.

To check the status of bulk syncing:
Ģ Go to: Logs > System Logs
Ģ Click the eye icon to view the details of the transfer.
Ģ Under the logs, you will see a green "Completed" label added under the Activity column once the sync has finished.

Stopping Payment Syncing
You can stop syncing payments completely or for specific entities.

Stop All Syncing (Disconnect Xero)
397 Go to the Xero integration page.
398 Click the Disconnect button.
Ģ This will remove XeroÆs access to BookingKoala.
Ģ All syncing will stop immediately.

Stop Syncing for a Specific Entity
399 Go to: Settings -> General -> Apps & Integration-> "Map Field" section
400 Select the entity tab, you want to stop syncing.
401 Toggle the Sync Status to disable syncing for that entity.
Ģ Payments for that specific entity will no longer sync with Xero.



5. General
Articles in this collection (33):

402 Setting up your store options "General" tab
403 Setting up your store options "Customer" tab
404 Setting up your store options "Provider" tab
405 Setting up your store options "Admin" tab
406 Setting up your store options "Scheduling" tab
407 Payment processors overview
408 Multiple appointments overview
409 Smart scheduling overview
410 Three types of scheduling
411 N/A (not available) scheduling
412 Same-day scheduling
413 How do providers/teams receive bookings
414 Set up your "Store Info" section
415 Log in as a customer or provider
416 Enable the customer and provider "My Drive" feature
417 How to enable multiple appointments per booking spot
418 How to enable the multiple time zone feature
419 How to set up payments and automatic charges
420 Add your location name to the customer's address
421 How to set up reschedule fees
422 Set up cancellation fees & reasons
423 How to set up automatic credit card holds/preauthorizations
424 Enable/disable customers from editing quotes
425 Enable/disable notes for booking price and time adjustments
426 Edit the message customers and providers see when they are blocked or deactivated
427 How to enable/disable "Calendar View" and customize how the schedule looks
428 Query parameters & preselected fields on the booking form
429 Setting up sales tax
430 Flushing the test data
431 Setting up your invoice settings in "Store Options"
432 Switching payment processors
433 Delete or consolidate locations
434 Hide job length from customers or providers



Setting up your store options "General" tab
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-your-store-options-general-tab

Setting up your store options "General" tab
Learn how to change your store name, domain, currency, customer payment options, and other general settings.

Last updated on 17 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to modify your general settings
Ģ How to update settings for your basic store info, locations, addresses, calendar, rescheduling fees, cancelations, quotes, price and time adjustments, payments, credit card holds, time zones, chat, multi-spot rules, and access.

Where is the "General" tab?
During your initial account set-up, it is important to go through each section in Store Options before you begin importing customers, providers, and adding bookings. This will ensure that the system behaves how you would like it to efficiently run your business.

The General tab controls a wide variety of settings that control how you and your customers use the system. To access this section, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > General

By default, you will be brought to the General tab.

To view the settings for each section, click the " plus sign " icon to expand it.

There are fourteen subcategories in this General Store Options tab. Click the section name below to view a detailed set-up guide.

Ģ Store Info
Ģ Location Settings
Ģ Address Settings
Ģ Calendar Settings
Ģ Rescheduling Fees
Ģ Cancellation
Ģ Quote
Ģ Price & Time Adjustment
Ģ Payment
Ģ Put Credit Card on Hold
Ģ Invoice Settings
Ģ Time Zone Settings
Ģ Chat Settings
Ģ Multispot Settings
Ģ Access Settings



Setting up your store options "Customer" tab
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-your-store-options-customer-tab

Setting up your store options "Customer" tab
Learn which features you can enable under the store options "Customer" tab.

Last updated on 26 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where to modify your general customer settings
Ģ How to configure settings for customers' bookings, Facebook use, referral sharing content, rescheduling rules, cancelation rules, and more.

Where is the "Customers" tab?
During your initial account set-up, it is important to go through each section in Store Options before you begin importing customers, and providers, and adding bookings. This will ensure that the system behaves how you would like it to efficiently run your business.

The Customer tab controls all settings that impact how customers use the system. To access this section, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Customer tab.

There are four subcategories in this tab:
Ģ Bookings
Ģ Facebook
Ģ Referral Sharing Content
Ģ General
Ģ Reschedule
Ģ Cancelation

To view the settings for each section, click the "plus sign" icon to expand it.

Bookings Settings
Display or Hide the Assigned Provider

Would you like to give the customer the option to see which provider is assigned to their booking?

If you select "No", the customer cannot see what provider has been assigned to their booking.

If you select "Yes", you can customize what provider information the customer will see.
Ģ Check the boxes next to each provider information you want to share with the customer.
Ģ If you checked off the box next to "Ratings", decide if you want to show all reviews or only show ratings above a certain threshold.
? For example, you can set the threshold to "4" so only ratings that equal 4 or higher are displayed under the provider's information.
Ģ If you check off the box next to "Read Reviews", you can select an option for if/how much of that customer's name will display.
? Full customer name - The customer's full first and last name will be displayed below the review. For example, John Smith.
? First name + Last initial - The customer's first name and the first initial of their last name will be displayed. For example, John S.
? No name - No customer name will be displayed below the review.

Where would you like this to be enabled?

This option allows you to choose where the customer will see the provider's information as set up above.
Ģ Customer Frontend - Only new customers and customers who are not logged in will see the provider details when booking.
Ģ Customer Backend - Only existing, logged-in customers will see the provider details.
Ģ Both - Customers on both the front and back end will be able to see provider details.

Would you like to show how many providers are attached to the job in the booking summary?

This option allows you to display how many providers have been assigned to the service in the booking summary.
Ģ Select "Yes" to add a "Professionals" count to the booking summary. This will display the total number of providers assigned to the booking.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the "Professionals" count from the booking summary.

Would you like to increase conversions by showing live reviews?

This option allows you to choose if you want to display the reviews that customers leave on your site. Live reviews can be displayed on the Booking Form, "Contact Us"/Lead Form, and Home Page.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the live reviews feature from your website and forms.
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable the live reviews feature.
? If you selected "Yes", decide if you would like to show All reviews or just reviews above a certain threshold. For example, if you select "4.0", only reviews that received a rating of 4.0 or higher will be displayed.
? If you selected "Yes", select an option for if/how much of that customer's name will display under the review.
Ģ Full customer name - The customer's full first and last name will be displayed below the review. For example, John Smith.
Ģ First name + Last initial - The customer's first name and the first initial of their last name will be displayed. For example, John S.
Ģ No name - No customer name will be displayed below the review.

Would you like to allow customers to book appointments for the same day?

Ģ Select "Yes" to allow same-day bookings.
? Use the drop-down box below to select how many hours customers can book before the start time. If your threshold is set to 1 hour, they must book at least 1 hour before the start time.
? For example, let's say you have booking spots at 8 AM, 10 AM, and 12 PM. If a customer visits your site at 9:01 AM and tries to book, the next spot that will show as available will be for noon. The reason why they cannot book the 10 AM spot is that it starts less than 1 hour from when they are booking.
Ģ Select "No" to block any same-day bookings from occurring. Use the drop-down boxes to set the latest time a customer can book and how many days it must be before the job date.
? For example, let's say a customer wants to schedule a job for tomorrow. If a customer tries to schedule for tomorrow and it is 6:30 PM, they will not see any spot for tomorrow. The next date they would be able to schedule would be the day after tomorrow. This is because they are trying to book after 6:00 PM less than one day before the booking date.

Do you want customers to see the entire payment summary on the booking form or only the total price?

This option allows you to add a "learn more" button to view the payment summary breakdown.
Ģ Customer Frontend - Only new customers and customers who are not logged in will see the full payment summary.
Ģ Customer Backend - Only existing, logged-in customers will see the full payment summary.
Ģ Both - Customers on both the front and back end will be able to the full payment summary.
Ģ None - Customers will only see the total price under the payment summary.

Would you like to make the primary phone number required on the booking form?

Ģ Select "Yes" to make entering a primary phone number mandatory when a customer is scheduling a service. This means that customers will not be able to book unless they enter a contact phone number.
Ģ Select "No" to allow customers to book without having to list their phone number.

Would you like to disable the secondary email address and phone number on the booking form?

Ģ Select "Yes" to disable the secondary email address and phone number fields on your booking form.
Ģ Select "No" to leave the secondary email address and phone number fields enabled on the booking form.

Allow Customer Reviews Feature

Would you like to allow your customers to rate your service?

This option allows you to control the ratings and reviews of your customers.
Ģ Select "No" if you don't want your customers to rate your service.
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable this feature.

If you select "Yes" to the previous question, the next question is: What industries can customers rate for? This option allows you to choose which industry your customers can rate their bookings. Choose the industries for which you want customer reviews and ratings.

External Reviews Feature

Would you like to give your customers the option to share their internal reviews on an external review platform?

This feature gives customers the option to post their internal reviews/ratings to other social media sites like Yelp, Thumbtack, Google, and Facebook.
Ģ Select "No" to disable the external reviews feature for customers.
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable this feature.

If enabled, you can set a threshold for how high the customer's rating must be for the external review pop-up to display.
Then, check the box next to each site name to add links for each location you service. Click "Edit" to edit the label, or "Delete" to delete that site entirely from the pop-up.
Click the blue "Add New" button to add a new website of your choice.

Where do you want to automatically share the customer's ratings on? Check the box below this question to enable automatic review sharing on Twitter or Facebook.

Which services would you like this to apply to? Select which type of customers will see this feature. Check the boxes next to One time, Recurring, or both.

Do you want to let customers earn from sharing?
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to earn credits when they share a review.
Ģ Select "No" to disable this option.

Will customers get rewarded per each share? If you selected "Yes", to the previous question, decide whether customers will be awarded credits for each time they share or just the first time.
Ģ Click "Yes" to give a customer credits every time they share on Twitter.
Ģ Click "No" to only give them credits the first them they share their review.

How much do customers get for sharing on Twitter/Facebook? Enter the number of credits the customer will receive when they share on Twitter or Facebook.

The corresponding pop-up in the website builder is called the Share Review pop-up and can be located by going to:
Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme > Page menu > Manage Popups > Customer Dashboard Popups > Share Review.

What percentage discount would you like to set up that is sent out to one-time appointments after the job is rated a 4/5 or higher to entice them to sign up for recurring services?

This setting pertains to the discount code offered in the customer notification email or SMS called "50% off your service (happy rating ot v1)".
This email can be enabled to offer a one-time customer a coupon code specifically for recurring services to entice them to sign up for more services.
Enter the discount percentage into the box below.

To modify the email/SMS that uses this discount, go to:
Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Customer > Rating & Review > 50% off your service (happy rating ot v1)
Click "Edit" to open the notification and make changes to the content. This notification uses the shortcode {{.DiscountedCouponCode}} to offer the discount you set up in your Customer Store Options section.

Would you like to allow customers to see job media?

This option, if enabled, allows the customer to see the job media a provider took and added to the booking. Media that providers take and upload usually are before and after media of the job to ensure a proper service was completed.
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to view any job pictures uploaded by the provider into the booking. This may help if you regularly share before and after photos with your clients.
Ģ Select "No" to keep job pictures hidden from the client. Only the provider and staff/admin will be able to view these photos.

Would you like to send booking reminder notifications to customers for unassigned bookings?

Ģ Select "Yes" to send reminder notifications, like "Your Booking is Coming Up Tomorrow", to customers for their unassigned bookings.
Ģ If you select "No", customers will not receive any reminder notifications until their booking has been assigned to a provider.

Facebook Settings
This section allows you to enable a Facebook Share coupon. When enabled, a Facebook share coupon will be inserted on your booking form page.
When a customer clicks the coupon box, they can share a post about your business. After sharing, they will receive a coupon code that can be applied to the service.
Check the box next to "Would you like to enable the Facebook share coupon?" to enable this feature.

Below, select where you could like the coupon to be published.
Ģ Customer frontend - Only new customers on the front-end booking page will be able to see this promotion.
Ģ Customer backend - Only existing customers who are logged into their dashboard will be able to see this on the booking page.
Ģ Both - Both new and existing customers can see the Facebook share coupon.

Then, enter the pop-up message you would like to show when the customer clicks the coupon box.

Please note: You must create a coupon and check the "Facebook Coupon" box in the Coupon section for this feature to work. You can create a new Facebook Share coupon by going to:
Marketing > Coupons > Add New
After checking the box next to "Facebook coupon", you can customize whichever services the coupon can be applied to in the section below.
At the bottom of the page, set the discount amount, whether it will be a fixed amount ($) or percentage-based (%), and then click the "Add Coupon" button to save it.

Referral Sharing Content Settings
This section allows you to set up a description when customers share their referral link on Twitter.
Beneath where it says "Twitter referral description", please enter the message you would like to be shared with the referral link.

General Settings
What would you like the system to display in the customer dashboard if their booking is not confirmed?

This setting applies whenever a booking is added to the Waitlist/Unassigned Folder. If you have allowed customers to see the name of the provider(s) assigned, this information is used in the customer's confirmation emails and displayed on their dashboard.
If their booking has not yet been assigned a provider, select what will be displayed instead.
Ģ Pending
Ģ Searching

Check the box next to "Turn on tooltip" to include a tooltip icon with an explanation for the customer.
When the customer hovers over or clicks on the booking status, they will see the message you have entered here.

When your customers click on FAQ/Support, where will they be taken to?

This option allows you to redirect your customers to an external FAQ or support page. Paste the link into the box below.
By default, customers will be redirected to your home page if you have not created a FAQ page by going to:
Settings > Design Forms & Website > FAQ

Would you like to enable the "My Drive" option for your customers?

Ģ Select "Yes" to enable a "My Drive" section in your customer's dashboard. This will allow you and your staff to upload files directly into their account.
Ģ Select "No" to disable the "My Drive" feature for customers.

Would you like to allow your customers to upload files inside their accounts?

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, decide if you would like to allow customers to upload files into the My Drive section.
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow them to upload files.
Ģ Select "No" to allow only staff and admin to upload files to their My Drive.

Which of these options would you like to allow customers to download invoices for?

Check the boxes next to "Booking", "Gift Card", and "Invoice" to allow customers to download invoices for these purchases.

Would you like to allow your customers to update gift cards inside their accounts?

Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to reload gift cards from inside their accounts. This means that a customer with an existing gift card can use a credit or debit card to add more credit to a gift card.
Ģ Select "No" to block customers from reloading gift cards. If the customer has finished using the balance on an existing gift card, they must receive or purchase a new gift card to continue making payments in the system without a credit or debit card on file.

When a customer adds a card, do you want to give them options or add the card to all bookings?

This setting applies if you use both cash/check and credit/debit as payment options for your customers in your bookings.
When a customer saves or updates a debit or credit card into a booking that was saved as "cash/check", you can have the system perform one of three actions:
Ģ Give options - The customer can select whether they would like to update the card for just bookings with a credit/debit card on file, or all bookings including those saved as "Cash/check".
Ģ Add to all bookings including cash/check bookings - The new card will be saved to all pending and upcoming bookings. Bookings that have already been charged will not be affected.
Ģ Add to all bookings not including cash/check bookings - The new card will be saved only to pending and upcoming bookings with a debit or credit card saved as the payment method. Bookings that have been saved as "Cash/check", as well as bookings that have already been marked as charged, will remain unaffected.

What should be the default state of the 'Send SMS notifications' opt-in checkbox?

This setting applies to the SMS notifications opt-in checkbox which is located under the phone number field on the booking form.
Ģ Checked - Customers will be automatically opted-in unless they uncheck the box.
Ģ Unchecked - Customers will not be automatically opted-in unless they check the box.

Reschedule Settings
This section allows you to control whether customers can reschedule bookings on their own and if so, what services this applies to.

Would you like to allow customers to be able to reschedule services on their own?

Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to reschedule services without any approval from the admin.
? Check the boxes next to "One time", "Recurring", or both to allow these kinds of customers to reschedule on their own.
? Under "What service categories can customers reschedule for?", check the boxes next to the service categories you would like to allow customers to reschedule. Check the box next to "All" to select all service categories under an industry.
Ģ Select "No" to block customers from rescheduling on their own.
? Enter a message into the box below to let customers know what to do when they need to reschedule their booking.

Cancelation Settings
This section controls your customers' ability to cancel or postpone their bookings.

Would you like to give your customers the ability to postpone bookings?

Ģ Select "Yes" to give customers a "postpone" option.
? When a customer clicks to "Cancel" a booking, a pop-up will ask if they would like to cancel or postpone their service. If they click "Postpone", the customer can pick which date they would like to resume the service. The system will delete all bookings between now and the postponed date.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the "postpone" option. Customers will only be able to cancel bookings individually or the entire recurring service.

Can customers postpone pre-charged bookings?

If you selected "Yes" to the previous question, decide if you would like customers to be able to postpone pre-charged bookings.
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to postpone pre-charged bookings.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the postpone option on pre-charge bookings. Customers will only be able to reschedule or cancel.

If you selected "Yes" to the previous question, decide what action should be taken by the system for the pre-charged booking.
Ģ Select "Refund & postpone" to refund any pre-paid amount back to the customer and postpone the appointments to the selected date.
Ģ Select "Postpone without refund" to retain the pre-charged amount and postpone the appointments to the selected date.

Would you like to allow customers to be able to cancel services on their own?

Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to cancel services on their own
? Check the boxes next to "One time", "Recurring", or both to allow these kinds of customers to cancel on their own.
? Under "What options would you like to offer your customers if they are canceling a recurring service?", check the boxes next to the following offers for customers:
Ģ Cancel a single booking from a recurring series: By selecting this option, customers can cancel individual bookings within their recurring service. For example, let's say a customer's recurring service consists of 5 bookings, "B1", "B2", "B3", "B4", and "B5". By enabling this option, a customer could cancel only B2 or B4 while leaving the rest of the bookings on the schedule.
Ģ Cancel bookings from a specific point onward: By selecting this option, customers can cancel their recurring service starting from a specific point in the future. For example, let's say a customer's recurring service consists of 5 bookings, "B1", "B2", "B3", "B4", and "B5". By enabling this option, a customer could cancel all future bookings starting from B3.
Ģ Cancel the entire recurring service: By selecting this option, customers are allowed to cancel the entire recurring series of bookings. This option will only be available when customers attempt to cancel bookings from the middle of the schedule. For example, let's say a customer's recurring service consists of 5 bookings, "B1", "B2", "B3", "B4", and "B5". By enabling this option, a customer would see the option to cancel the entire recurring service when viewing options to cancel B2, B3, B4, or B5, but would not see this option on B1.
? Under "What service categories can customers cancel for?", check the boxes next to the service categories you would like to allow customers to cancel. Check the box next to "All" to select all service categories under an industry.
? Below "Do you need to confirm the cancellation request before it leaves the customer's dashboard?" decide if you would like for customers to submit a cancelation request to the admin to cancel a booking.
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable customer cancelation requests. Cancelation requests will come into the "Cancelation Requests" tab under Canceled Bookings in the main menu.
Ģ Select "No" to turn cancelation requests off. This means that customers can cancel appointments automatically without any admin or staff approval.
? If you have enabled cancelation requests, decide what type of bookings this will apply to.
? Under "Do you want to refund the booking if the customer cancels a pre-charged booking?", decide whether you want to process a refund when a customer cancels a pre-charged booking.
Ģ Select "Yes" to automatically refund the pre-payment when the booking is canceled.
Ģ Select "No" to cancel the booking but retain the pre-payment.
Ģ Select "No" to block customers from canceling on their own.
? Enter a message into the box below to let customers know what to do when they need to cancel their booking.

If a customer resumes the cancellation booking, what should happen to the provider cancellation payment?

Ģ Select "Don't do anything, Provider will keep the payment" to allow the system not to do anything and let the provider keep the payment.
Ģ Select "Revert the payment and don't pay the Provider" to allow the system to revert the payment from the provider and not pay the provider.
NOTE: Please note that the "Revert the payment and don't pay the Provider" option will work only if payment has not been made to the provider.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Setting up your store options "Provider" tab
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-your-store-options-provider-tab

Setting up your store options "Provider" tab
Learn how each setting affects your providers under the store options "Provider" tab.

Last updated on 03 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ Where to modify your general provider settings
Ģ How to configure rules for provider's bookings, how they are scheduled, the GPS & time logs feature, and sending out the schedule.

Where is the "Providers" tab?
During your initial account set-up, it is important to go through each section in Store Options before you begin importing customers and providers and adding bookings. This will ensure that the system behaves how you would like it to efficiently run your business.

The Provider tab controls all settings that impact how your providers view and use the system.  To access this section, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Provider tab.

To view the settings for each section, click the " plus sign " icon to expand it.

There are four subcategories in this Provider Store Options tab.  Click each section name below to view a detailed set-up guide.

Ģ Bookings
Ģ Scheduling
Ģ GPS & Time Logs
Ģ Send Schedule Automatically



Setting up your store options "Admin" tab
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-your-store-options-admin-tab

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Find your admin settings
Ģ Set a minimum gift card amount
Ģ Set a default referral amount
Ģ Connect your payment processor
Ģ Connect your provider payment processor
Ģ Flush your test data

Where is the "Admin" tab?
During your initial account set-up, it is important to go through each section in Store Options before you begin importing customers and providers and adding bookings. This will ensure that the system behaves how you would like it to efficiently run your business.

The Admin tab controls the settings related to your default gift card and referral amounts, connecting your payment processors, and flushing your test data.  To access this section, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Admin tab.

There are three subcategories in this tab:

Ģ Settings
Ģ Connect Payment Gateways
Ģ Flush Test Data

Settings
Gift Card

Enter the Minimum Gift Card Amount into the first box.

Are you able to edit a gift card to have a total less than its minimum requirement?

Ģ If you select " Yes ", the customer and admin will be able to edit details such as their name and the message.  The admin will also be able to edit the gift card total to less than the minimum you have set above.
Ģ If you select " No ", all gift cards must meet the minimum requirement you have set and customers will not be able to make any changes to the gift card after purchasing it.

Enable the maximum gift card amount limit?"

Ģ Select " Yes " to enter a maximum amount for your gift card purchases.  Customers will NOT be able to purchase a gift card that exceeds this amount.
Ģ Select " No " to disable the maximum gift card amount limit.

Referral

Enter the number of credits given to the person being referred into the first box.

Enter the number of credits given to the person referring someone into the second box.

Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of this section to update your gift card and referral settings.

Payment Descriptions

Set your payment descriptions so you and your customers can easily identify your transactions.

You can set different descriptions for each of the following:

Ģ Card hold description
Ģ Charge booking description
Ģ Separate charge description
Ģ Charge invoice description

Remember to click the blue " Save " button once you are finished setting your descriptions.

Connect Payment Gateways
This section is where you can set up and connect your payment processor to your BookingKoala account. When you connect a payment processor, you gain the ability to collect and charge debit and credit cards, allow customers to purchase gift cards, and more.

Enable/Disable Your Payment Processor

This section allows you to connect (or disable) the primary payment processor for your account.

Four payment processors currently integrate with BookingKoala. You can connect one of them to use for your store. Click the links below to visit a guide on how to set up and connect your account.

Ģ Stripe
Ģ Square
Ģ PayPal (via BrainTree by PayPal)
Ģ Authorize.net

Please note: it is not possible to use all four payment processors right now.

Next, decide if you would like to enable or disable 3DS.

Ģ If the button to the right of the feature is red and reads " Disabled ", this indicates that the 3DS2 feature is not live for your account.
Ģ You can toggle the button to " Enabled " by clicking on the bottom. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you would like to enable the 3DS2 feature.  Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.

Decide if you would like to add the billing address associated with a card when it is added to the system.

Ģ If the button to the right of the feature is red and reads " Disabled " you and your customers can add cards for payment without including the billing address.
Ģ If the button is toggled to the right and reads " Enabled ", all card additions with require a billing address.

Connect Your Provider's Payment Accounts

This section allows you to connect (or disable) the provider payment processor for your account.

Currently, there are two options for paying out providers with your connected payment processor:

Ģ Stripe
Ģ PayPal (via BrainTree by PayPal)

You can only connect one way to payout your providers and it must correspond with your primary payment processor.

Flush Test Data
Every new BookingKoala account includes a few fake customers, providers, and bookings to better help you understand the system and test your settings.  It is important to flush this test data before incorporating your payment processor, as any existing bookings with payment options may affect the accuracy of your revenue and earnings reports.

At the very bottom of the page, click the red Flush Test Data button . A pop-up box will appear, confirming you would like to delete the data. Select Yes to continue.

Please note : if the Flush Test Data button or section is missing, the data has already been removed and you are good to go!



Setting up your store options "Scheduling" tab
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-your-store-options-scheduling-tab

Setting up your store options "Scheduling" tab
Learn how each feature affects scheduling under the store options "Scheduling" tab.

Last updated on 02 Sept, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where to modify your scheduling settings
Ģ How to configure rules for general scheduling, recurring bookings, provider availability, and booking options

Where is the "Scheduling" tab?
During your initial account set-up, it is important to go through each section in Store Options before you begin importing customers, providers, and adding bookings. This will ensure that the system behaves how you would like it to efficiently run your business.

The Scheduling tab controls all settings that impact how bookings are scheduled in the system.  To access this section, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Scheduling tab.

There are five subcategories in this tab:
Ģ Scheduling
Ģ Recurring Bookings
Ģ Provider Availability
Ģ Spots Availability
Ģ Booking Options

To view the settings for each section, click on the category to expand it.  

Scheduling Settings
Spot Availability

The first question in this section is, "Would you like to check the spots availability based on the providers/teams availability?"
Ģ If you select "Yes", the system will show booking spots based on provider availability. This means that there must be at least one available provider for a time slot to be booked.  If there are no available providers for the selected date, no times will be displayed.  
Ģ If you select "No", the system will display all of your time slots to customers regardless of whether the provider is available or not.

Click here to learn more about booking spots and how to set them up.

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, you will have an additional question to answer: "Would you like to select the provider manually or automatically?"
Ģ Select "Manual" if you want to assign the provider by clicking on the "Assign Provider" button on the booking form.
Ģ Select "Automatic" if you would like the system to assign a provider automatically based on the provider priority. 
The provider priority order can be updated by going to:
Providers > Providers > "Set Priority"
There is also a "Change" button so you can select a different provider if you wish.

Assigning Bookings

Next, select an option for, "How would you like the system to assign bookings to your providers?"
Ģ "Accepted Automatically" means that if a provider is available for the selected date and time, it will be automatically added to their schedule once the booking is saved.  
Ģ "Accepts Same Day Only" means that all future bookings will be assigned automatically except for same-day bookings, in which case providers will have the option to accept or decline the job.
Ģ "Accept or Decline" means that every job must be confirmed by the provider before it is added to their schedule.  Once they click "Accept" from inside their account, the job will be added to their schedule.

If you selected "Accepts Same Day Only" or "Accept or Decline", there will be another option to control how long they have to accept the job before another provider is notified of the new job.

Under "How long do providers/teams have to accept the job before it is passed on to the next provider/team?", enter the length of time into the "hours" and "minutes" boxes.

Unassigned Folder

The "Unassigned Folder" is a section that holds all bookings that have not been assigned to a provider just yet.  The question, "Would you like to allow your providers to see bookings in the unassigned folder and accept them?" allows you to control whether your providers can see and accept bookings from this section.

Ģ If you select "Yes", providers will see an Unassigned Bookings section in their dashboard/app.
Ģ If you select "No", only the admin will be able to see and assign bookings from this section.

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, you will have three additional questions to answer.  "Would you like to allow your providers to see bookings in the unassigned folder even if not applicable?" controls which jobs the providers can see.

Ģ Select "Yes" if you want to display all jobs in the unassigned folder, even if a provider does not service that area or has settings enabled for that type of booking. 
For example, even if a cleaner is disabled from doing office cleanings, they would still be able to see an office-cleaning job if it goes into the unassigned folder.
Ģ Select "No" if you want to hide unassigned bookings that do not meet the provider's settings.
For example,  if a provider is only open to working in New York, they will not be able to see or pick up a California job that comes into the unassigned folder.

Next, decide, "Will other providers be able to see and grab the job from the unassigned folder in the meantime?"  
Ģ Select "Yes" if you would like unassigned jobs to remain visible to all providers even during the automated job invitation process.  
Ģ Select "No" if you would like unassigned jobs to be visible to just one provider or team at a time during the job invitation process.

Next, make a selection for, "Would you like all your providers to be notified when a new booking comes into the unassigned folder?"
Ģ "Yes" means that all your providers will receive a notification at the same time whenever a new booking comes into the unassigned folder. Be sure to check that the "new booking in unassigned folder" email or SMS is enabled in the Notifications section.  
Ģ "No" means that the system will not send out a mass notification to all providers.

Next, "Should system check the provider working hours availability to send unassigned booking notification?" 
Ģ Select "Yes" if the system should consider providers based on open availability and agreeable work hours when sending unassigned booking invitations.  If the provider is not available due to another booking, or they don't have working hours for that time, they will not be considered.  
Ģ Select "No" so all providers receive unassigned booking invitations regardless of availability and working hours.

Next, "Allow providers to grab the booking even if they are not available because of working hours (as well as booking overlap)?" 
Ģ Select "Yes" if you would like providers to be able to grab bookings that they are not available for due to working hours or if there is an overlap with another booking on their schedule.
Ģ Select "No" so providers are unable to grab unassigned bookings unless they are fully available.

The next option, "Override per provider option for unassigned folder visibility?" pertains to all of your providers.
Ģ Select "Yes" if you would like to override the individual settings per provider regarding unassigned folder visibility and apply the settings above to every provider.
Ģ Select "No" if you would like to maintain individual provider permissions when it comes to who can see unassigned bookings or not.

Finally, provide an answer to "What should happen if the provider is not available (applicable as well as available) at the time of acceptance?" 
Ģ Select "Deny" if you do not want to override the provider's availability and assign the job to them.  
Ģ Select "Allow" if you do want to override the provider's availability and assign the job to their schedule.

Recurring Booking Settings
Scheduling Recurring Bookings

The first question in this section is, "How would you like the system to schedule recurring bookings?" This allows you to control how far in advance the system will schedule your recurring services.  

Ģ Select "Just one appointment" if you only want the system to schedule one appointment at a time for a recurring service.
For example, if you were to book a weekly service, there would only be one appointment on the customer's schedule at any given time.  After that booking is completed, a new booking will be added for the following week.
If you select this option, you will also need to set a number for "How many recurring booking(s) do you want to block into the future?"
Use the drop-down menu to select the number of spots you'd like to block off for the recurring service. 
Please input the quantity here to specify the total number of bookings for the recurring service with the designated provider.
For instance, if you choose three numbers, the system will generate a total of three bookings for the recurring service with the designated provider.
Ģ Select "One month of appointments - A maximum of 12 bookings"  to schedule a month's worth of appointments every time you book a recurring service, with a maximum limit of 12 bookings for the recurring service.
For example, if you book a weekly recurring customer on May 1st, 4 bookings (or 5, depending on the day and month) will be scheduled in the future:
May 1
May 8
May 15
May 22
May 29
If you book a daily recurring customer on May 1st, 12 bookings (starting from the 1st, excluding every 7th day as a weekly off) will be scheduled in the future, accounting for working days:
May 1
May 2
May 3
May 4
May 5
May 6
May 8
May 9
May 10
May 11
May 12
May 13
Ģ Select "Six months of appointments - A maximum of 12 bookings" to schedule appointments for six months every time you book a recurring service, with a maximum limit of 12 bookings allowed within the recurring service.
For example, if you had a monthly customer (every four weeks) book for May 5, 6 appointments would be generated.
May 5
June 2
June 30
July 28
August 25
September 22
If you book a weekly recurring customer on May 1st, 12 bookings (starting from the 1st, based on the specific day and month) will be scheduled in the future:
May 1
May 8
May 15
May 22
May 29
June 5
June 12
June 19
June 26
July 3
July 10
July 17

Unassigned Recurring Bookings

The next question in this section is "Would you like to show all upcoming bookings for a recurring schedule even if the schedule is not yet confirmed?" This will determine how unassigned recurring bookings will be displayed in the Unassigned Folder.  

Ģ If you select "Yes", each individual booking of the unassigned service will be displayed. 
Ģ If you select "No", the system will just display one booking to represent the entire recurring service. Once the service is assigned to a provider, each individual appointment will be scheduled on their calendar.

Cron Preferences

"Cron" is a utility that schedules commands for automatic execution at specific intervals.  Cron uses the information in the booking and these preferences to generate new bookings in the future for recurring services (unless the service has been canceled or suspended).  

"Would you like to apply the same provider when booking is added from cron?" 
Ģ "Yes" - Each time cron adds a new booking for a recurring service, it will be assigned to the original provider whether they are available or not.  If you select this option, the system will generate the booking even if another booking is scheduled for the same time.  
Ģ "No" - Each time cron adds a new booking for a recurring service, it will be assigned to the original provider if they are available. If they are not, the booking will go into the Unassigned Folder.

Next, select your preference for, "Would you like to choose whether the new booking in the recurring schedule should be added based on the recently completed job or based on the last booking in the recurring schedule?"  This rule lets cron know which information to use when it is generating future bookings.  

Ģ "Recently completed" means that the system will use the details and selections made in the most recently completed booking.
For example, let's say a customer has weekly recurring services. The system is set to generate 1 month of appointments.  Their schedule is:
Tuesday, 1/4 at 9 AM, assigned to Maria
Tuesday, 1/11 at 9 AM, assigned to Maria
Tuesday, 1/18 at 9 AM, assigned to Maria
Wednesday, 1/26 at 10 AM, assigned to Tony
After the 1/4 (next upcoming) booking is completed, its information will be copied to generate a new future booking:
Tuesday, 2/1 at 9 AM, assigned to Maria
Ģ "Last booking" means the system will use the details and selections in the last booking in the current series to generate future appointments.
The weekly customer's schedule is:
Tuesday, 1/4 at 9 AM, assigned to Maria
Tuesday, 1/11 at 9 AM, assigned to Maria
Tuesday, 1/18 at 9 AM, assigned to Maria
Wednesday, 1/26 at 10 AM, assigned to Tony
Once the 1/4 booking is completed, the system will use the details from the 1/26 service to generate a new future booking:
Wednesday, 2/2 at 10 AM, assigned to Tony

Provider Availability Settings
This section controls how the system should check providers' availability to schedule bookings.

Availability Based on Provider Settings

The question, "Would you like the providers' availability to be based on selections made on the booking form?" determines whether the booking details will impact the provider's availability or not.  

Ģ If you select "Yes", bookings will be scheduled with a provider only if the form selections are enabled in their provider settings.
For example, let's say a customer is booking a cleaning service for a 3 bedroom home.  Once they select "3" to indicate the number of bedrooms, the system will check the settings for all providers for this selection.
If a provider does not have "3" checked off in their Form Settings, then this provider would not show as available.
Ģ If you select "No", bookings will be assigned using other rules in this section.
Using the same example as above, regardless of the provider's setting, the system will display the provider as available.

Team and Individual Provider Availability

Next, select an option for "If a team member is already scheduled with a booking, what should happen if someone is trying to book for the same/date and time using the team(s) this provider belongs to?"

This question pertains to another setting under the Provider General Options section.  

If you allow team members to work individually and as part of a set team, you will want to let the system know how to consider the team's availability when one of the individuals is scheduled.  

For example, let's say provider Nancy and Susan are a part of a team called Team Blue, but also work as individuals. On January 20, Nancy has a solo job scheduled for 10 AM. 

When this option is enabled, a customer could still book Team Blue on January 20 at 11 AM even though Nancy has a solo job that morning.

If you do not want teams to be booked unless both providers are available, select "Consider the team(s) unavailable to avoid duplicate bookings."

Using the example above, a customer could not book Team Blue at 11 AM, because Nancy's 10 AM job wouldn't be finished until much later than 11 AM.  

Max Time

Beneath "What would be the max time each team/provider can work on each booking?" you can set a maximum amount of hours and minutes each team or provider can work on a booking. The "max time" you set here will override any other time estimates in the booking. 

For example, you can select "8" and "15" to ensure that each provider can only be scheduled for up to 8 hours 15 minutes per booking.  This is especially helpful if you are basing your scheduling on provider availability and want to ensure that larger bookings will still fit on the schedule.  

Recurring Provider Availability

When a customer books a recurring service, you can decide whether the system will check availability just for the first appointment or for every appointment in the series. Beneath the question, "Should the system check the provider's availability for only the first appointment in a recurring schedule or for all of them?", select one:

Ģ "First appointment" - Only the provider's availability for the first service will be checked. If the provider has a conflict with a future date, that appointment will be placed in the Unassigned Folder or assigned to a different cleaner.  
Ģ "All" - The system will check availability for every appointment in the recurring service. If there are any conflicts, such as another booking, or the provider is not available for one of the dates, they will not be displayed as an option at all.

If you answered "All" for the previous question, you will see an additional setting: "Exclude the date in a recurring schedule if the provider is not available for just that specific date in the recurring schedule."

Ģ "Yes" means the system will show availability for a recurring service even if there is one date that the provider will not be available.  If the service is scheduled, the unavailable date will be skipped and no booking will be scheduled for that date.  
Ģ "No" means the provider must be available for every date of the recurring service in order for it to show as available.  If they are off one of the days that service would fall on, it will not be shown as available.

Assigning Spots Based on Job Length

The next question in this section is, "Would you like to enable the option of assigning booking spots based on job length?"  This option will only be displayed if you selected to assign providers automatically to bookings towards the top of the Scheduling section.  

Ģ If you select "No" for this question, the system will assign a booking as long as the provider is available for the start time.
For example, let's say a provider works from 10 AM to 6 PM every day. If a customer wants to book a 5-hour service at 4 PM, the provider will still show as available since they will be available at 4 PM.
Ģ If you select "Yes" for this question, there are several more options to fine-tune the system's behavior.

"What should happen if the assigned provider/team is no longer available for a booking due to a same-day job length increase?"

For example, let's say a 2-hour booking is assigned to a provider.  If the customer or admin makes a same-day change that increases the length of the booking to 4 hours, decide how the system should handle this situation if the provider is NOT available for the entire 4 hours.  

Ģ If you select "Keep booking with original provider", the system will allow the job to stay on the original provider's schedule even if they do not have availability for the longer job length.
Ģ If you select "Assign another provider with availability", the system will no longer show the original provider is available and you or the customer must select another provider who is available for the entire appointment length.

This setting has options for both "Edits made by admin/staff" and "Edits made by the customer" so you can set different options depending on whether the edit is being made by admin/staff or the customer.  

"Would you like the system to check the providers scheduling availability to see if the booking length exceeds their end time?"

Ģ "Yes" - Select this if you want the system to make sure the provider has enough availability based on the job length. 
For example, if a customer wants to book a 4-hour job at 3 PM, but a provider's availability stops at 5 PM, they would not display as available for this booking.
Ģ "No" - The system will not check if the job length runs into their "unavailable" time.

If bookings are assigned based on job length, you can also choose to set a Travel Time Break by entering the hours and minutes into the boxes below. A "travel time break" identifies if a provider is traveling to a different location and inserts a "buffer" of time after that first job.  This buffer prevents customers from booking appointments too close together, especially if they are not in the same location.  

You can also set up a Non-Travel Time Break if you'd like. This identifies if a provider's next job is in the same location as the previous job, and then inserts a buffer after the first job.  This is optional but can be used to set a shorter break after an appointment if the following booking is in the same area.  

For example, let's say a provider is scheduled for a 4-hour job at 8 AM in location (zip code) 60601. If another customer in zip code 60659 wants to book for the same date, the earliest they would be able to schedule is 1 PM.
Since the 60601 job will be completed at noon and the following job is in a different area, the system reserved 1 hour between appointments for the provider to travel/restock/take a break.

Let's say the second booking was also in zip code 60601.  In this case, the customer could schedule for as earlier as 11:30 AM on this date.
Because the jobs are in the same location, the non-travel time break is used to insert a shorter break period in between appointments.

Lastly, make a selection for, "If your business uses arrival ranges, where would you like the system to acknowledge the beginning of the job?"  The system needs to know the beginning and end of each job to properly display bookings in the past, today's, or upcoming booking sections.  

If you use arrival ranges for your booking spots (like 8 AM-9 AM, 9 AM-10 AM, etc.), the system will need to know which start point to consider as the beginning.
Ģ Start of the range - If your arrival range is "8 AM - 10 AM", the system will consider the booking to have started at 8 AM.
Ģ Middle of the range - If your arrival range is "8 AM - 10 AM", the system will consider the booking to have started at 9 AM.
Ģ End of the range - If your arrival range is "8 AM - 10 AM", the system will consider the booking to have started at 10 AM.

Spots Availability
This section pertains to how your booking spots work in conjunction with provider availability.

Availability-Based Spot Limits

Booking spots are the time options you offer to customers when they are scheduling a service. Booking spots correspond with provider availability, so a spot will only show if at least one provider is available for that service. 

For the question, "Would you like to manage spot availability based on limits?", select:
Ģ "Yes" if you would like to use spot limits to restrict how many bookings can be scheduled for a day/time.
When this option is selected, there will be a "Daily Limits" section in the Booking Spots tab.  
Ģ "No" if you do not want to use spot limits.  This will allow customers to book any time spot without restriction.

To learn more about booking spots and how to set them up, click here.  

Holiday Settings

Under where it says "Skip holidays?" decide whether the system should include holidays when checking availability for a recurring service.  

Ģ Select "Yes" if would like for holidays to be skipped when checking availability.
For example, let's say you are checking a weekly recurring service for Fridays.  One of the upcoming Fridays, January 1, happens to be a holiday for your business.  In this situation, the system would disregard the lack of availability on that holiday date and will show availability for the weekly recurring service.
If the weekly recurring service is booked, jobs will be scheduled on all upcoming Fridays except January 1, which will be skipped due to its holiday status.
Ģ Select "No" if you want to consider the holiday when checking recurring availability.
Using the same example as above, the system would not show weekly availability for Fridays because there is a holiday that interrupts the provider's availability.  The system will only show availability when ALL upcoming dates are available for a recurring service.

Finally, decide your preference for "Which user(s) should be blocked from booking on holidays?"
Ģ If you select "Customer", only the staff and admin can add new bookings on a holiday date.  Customers will not see any availability for services that occur on a holiday.  
Ģ If you select "Both admin & customer" neither customers, staff, nor admin will be able to schedule bookings on dates designated as holidays.

Booking Option Settings
The final section in the Scheduling tab pertains to additional booking options for the customer and admin.  

Enable the Waitlist for Customer Use

Under "Do you want to activate the waiting list option under the booking form for your customers?" select "Yes" to enable the waitlist feature.

This allows customers to place bookings into the unassigned folder for a time that is not available.  The customer will not receive a confirmation email/SMS until the job has been assigned to or picked up by a provider.  

To learn more about how the waitlist feature works, click here.  

Choose Specific Provider for Customers

For "Do you want to activate the specific provider option for your customers?" select "Yes" to allow customers to search for an individual's name to check their availability and schedule a booking.  

If you have selected "Yes" for this, you can also control where this option will be enabled. For "Where would you like this to be enabled?", you can select:
Ģ Customer frontend - Only new customers can see/use this option.
Ģ Customer backend - Only existing customers who are logged into their account can see/use this option.
Ģ Both - Both new and existing customers can search for a specific provider.

Choose Specific Provider for Admin or Staff

For "Do you want to activate the option to choose a specific provider for admin or staff?" select "Yes" to allow yourself and staff members to choose a specific provider when booking on behalf of a client, or select "No" to disable this option. 



Payment processors overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/payment-processors-overview

Payment processors overview
Learn which payment processors you can connect to BookingKoala and how they work.

Last updated on 20 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What types of payment you can accept
Ģ Which payment processors you can use in BookingKoala

Which payment processors work with BookingKoala?
Processing Debit/Credit Card Payments Currently, BookingKoala can be connected to the following payment processors:
Ģ Stripe
Ģ Square
Ģ PayPal (via Braintree by PayPal)
Ģ Authorize.net

For a detailed guide on how to set up each kind of processor, please use the links above.

Please note: BookingKoala can only connect one payment processor at a time. You cannot connect to more than one payment processor per account.
Ģ Check out this guide if you are trying to switch from one payment processor to another in your BookingKoala account.

Processing Provider Payouts Currently, two payment processors can pay out providers:
Ģ Set Up Stripe to Pay Providers
? Connect your providers and set up branding on Stripe
? For admin: How to connect a provider Stripe account
? For providers: How to connect your Stripe account
Ģ PayPal (via BrainTree)
? For admin: Connecting provider PayPal accounts
? For providers: How to connect a PayPal account

You can only connect one way to payout your providers and it must correspond with your primary payment processor. This means that if you use Stripe to charge customers, you must also use Stripe for provider payouts in BookingKoala.
Ģ Please note that provider payments can be marked as "cash/check" inside Bookingkoala and then payment can be transmitted outside of BookingKoala in the manner of your choosing.

Which payment processors utilize 3DS2?
3DS2 (Secure Customer Authentication) is an authentication and security protocol designed to help merchants and banks secure online payments and protect customers against fraud. 3DS2 SCA works by using a combination of two-factor authentication (2FA) and 3D Secure 2 (3DS2) technology to verify a cardholder's identity.

When a customer makes an online payment, the merchant sends a request to the customerÆs bank to authenticate the transaction. The bank will then provide the customer with an authentication method, like SMS codes, biometrics, or a one-time password, to verify their identity. Once this step is complete, the bank sends a response to the merchant with the authentication result. This result is used to determine whether the transaction can be approved or declined.

Three out of the payment processors that integrate with BookingKoala are 3DS2-compliant:
Ģ Stripe
Ģ Square
Ģ PayPal (via Braintree)

The payment processor Authorize.net currently does not support 3DS2.

Click here to learn more about 3DS2 card security and how to set up 3DS2 compliance for your BookingKoala account.

What if my payment processor isn't on the list?
Right now, you can only collect customer payments using one of the processors that are already integrated with BookingKoala. However, that doesn't mean we won't add an integration for it in the future. Since BookingKoala's release, we have added three additional payment processor integrations and plan on adding more in the future.

If you would like to charge customers using a different platform, it is possible to mark charges as being paid using the "Cash/Check" option. This option can be used to indicate that the payment was collected outside of your BookingKoala account. If you need to process charges outside of BookingKoala, the "Cash/Check" button will ensure your revenue reports remain accurate. It is possible to mark provider payments as "Cash/Check" for the same purpose.

Does BookingKoala charge any fees for payment processing?
Your BookingKoala subscription fee covers the integration of any payment processor of your choice. There are no additional fees based on the transactions you process in your BookingKoala account. All fees will be determined by which payment processor you have an account with and the details of your plan/subscription with them. Please contact their support team with any questions about how much they charge for each type of transaction.

What payment methods can I accept in BookingKoala?
BookingKoala has two different options for collecting payments: credit/debit card and "cash/check".

Ģ Credit/debit cards can be saved for customers if you integrate a payment processor with your account. This is because BookingKoala is not a payment processor, meaning it does not have the ability to store credit card information.
? Once a payment processor is connected, BookingKoala will display the last four digits of any cards on file for easy identification. However, the actual card details are encrypted and stored inside your payment processor account.
Ģ Cash/check, as mentioned, earlier, can be used to indicate that payment will be collected outside of BookingKoala instead of using an integrated payment processor.
? The payment could be actual cash, a check, an invoice submitted from a third-party platform, a cash app transaction, etc.

To enable the types of payment you would like to accept, go to: Settings > General > Store Options

Under the General tab, click on the Store Info subcategory name or the plus sign icon to expand the settings options. The checkboxes for the Accepted Forms of Payment can be found close to the bottom of the Store Info section.

If both boxes are checked, the customer can checkout using either of the two options.

If Cash/Check is disabled, customers will not be able to select that option and will need to enter a debit or credit card to book their appointment. However, admin and staff accounts are still able to select the cash/check option from the backend. This can be helpful when saving booking drafts or if a customer needs to call back at a later time with card information.

If Credit/Debit Card payments are disabled, you will have to collect all cash/check payments manually from your clients.

To change the names of the options of "Cash/Check" or "Credit/Debit Card", please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Once the web builder loads, clock on the top center Page menu and select the "Book Now" page.

Scroll down the booking page until you reach the Payment Information section. Click on the payment method option you would like to edit and click the Edit button that appears.

Once you've entered the new text, be sure to click the Save & Publish button in the top right corner of the page.

Payments Via Gift Cards and Referral Credits*
If you subscribe to the Growing or Premium plans, you also have the option to allow customers to pay for services using gift cards and referral credits.

To sell gift cards, it is required to integrate a payment processor. Charges for gift cards are processed immediately upon purchase. They can be redeemed by the recipient by entering the gift card code into a tab on the booking form.

Click here to learn more about gift cards.

You also have the option to offer referral credits to your customers. Referral credits are awarded when someone books using the customer's unique referral link. Both parties must have one completed booking before the credits are applied to their account. Admin or customers can apply the referral credits to lower the cost of their next service.

Click here to learn more about referral credits.

The balances for gift cards and referral credits are tracked automatically, so you do not have to keep track of any changes if a booking is modified or canceled. You can also customize if clients are allowed to "stack" discounts or if they can only use one at a time.

*Only available with the Growing or Premium subscription



Multiple appointments overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/mulitple-appointments-overview

Multiple appointments overview
Learn how to set up multiple appointments per booking spot.

Last updated on 05 Jul, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How multiple appointments per booking spot works
Ģ How to enable multiple appointments per provider
Ģ Setting up multiple booking spots per provider
Ģ How to limit multiple packages or items per provider
Ģ How to enable or disable multiple packages or items per booking spot

Before You Begin
Before you can begin setting up multi-spot booking, you will need to enable it in your settings section. Click here to learn how to enable this feature.

What is "multi-spot" booking?
Multiple appointments, or "multi-spot" booking, is a feature that allows customers to book a provider or team more than once for the same date and time spot.

For example, in the dog walking industry, a dog walker may take out multiple clients' dogs at the same time if they are in the same neighborhood. By enabling multi-spot appointments, the business can decide how many appointments the provider receives for any given date and time.

Enabling Multiple Appointments Per Provider
Once you have enabled "multi-spot booking" in your General Store Option settings, you will need to go to each provider's profile that you will allow to take on jobs with multiple appointments. Start by going to:

Providers > Providers

Click on a provider or team's name to be redirected to their dashboard, then click on the "Settings" tab at the top of the page. From here, select the "Forms" tab.

The ability to accept multiple appointments can be enabled or disabled per industry and booking form. To turn on multiple appointments for a form, click the industry tab and then select the form tab you would like to update.

Depending on the form you are editing, there will be a few different options when enabling multi-spot booking.

Form 1, Form 4, and Form 5 If you are in form 1, form 4, or form 5, you will see the question "Turn on multiple appointments?" at the top of this section.
Ģ Select "Per Booking Spot" to enable multi-spot bookings for this form.
Ģ Select "Off" if you do not want to use multi-spot booking for the selected form.

Form 2 If you are editing settings for form 2, you will have an additional option to place limits on the number of packages that a customer can book for any given appointment (as well as offer multiple appointments per booking spot).
Ģ To enable this option, select "Per Booking Spot + Package" to set up limits on the number of packages per appointment.
? When you select this option, boxes will be inserted next to each package in the section below.
? Enter the total number of packages you'd like a customer to schedule with this provider.
? For example, if the package limit is set to "3", a customer with four packages in their booking will not be able to schedule with this provider.

Form 3 If you are editing settings for form 3, you will have a similar option to place limits on the number of items that a customer can schedule per appointment (as well as offering multiple appointments per booking spot).
Ģ To enable this option, select "Per Booking Spot + Items" to set up limits on the number of items selected per appointment.
? When you select this option, boxes will be inserted next to each item in the section below.
? Enter the maximum number of items you'd like a customer to schedule with this provider.
? For example, if the limit for "Medium Dog" is set to "2", a customer with 3 medium dogs would not be able to schedule with this provider.

Once you are finished making your selections, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page to update your provider's settings.

Setting Up Multiple Spots Per Provider
Once you've enabled multiple appointments under the provider's settings section, you can set the number of appointments per booking spot.

To do this, go to the "Schedule" tab at the top of the provider's dashboard.

Next, click on the green "Spots Availability" button in the top right corner of the page.

A pop-up window will appear in the center of the screen, displaying the default multi-spot settings for the provider.

435 Location: If you have more than one location, select the location you are setting up multiple appointments for.
436 Whole: Select "Whole" if you want to set up multiple booking spots for the provider's entire schedule.
437 Specific Date: Select "Specific Date" to set up multiple appointments for a single date.
438 Day: If you are setting up multiple appointments for the provider's whole schedule, select a day of the week from the dropdown box to edit its spots.
439 Time: Each booking spot will be displayed in a list from earliest to latest.
440 Quantity: Enter the total number of appointments per spot in the box to the right.
441 Save: After changing the quantity of a book spot, click the blue "Save" button to update the provider's availability.

Once you are finished setting up multiple appointments per spot, click the red "x" icon to close out the pop-up window.

Multiple Packages and Items (Forms 2 & 3)
If you have enabled multiple appointments per booking spot for your business, you will have an additional setting for your packages (form 2) and items (form 3). This setting allows you to control if a package or item is allowed to be combined with other packages and forms for the same spot.

You may want to use this option if a certain package/item is expected to take more time and resources than your average service. To ensure that the customer cannot add more services once this package/item has been added to their cart, you can disable combinations with other packages/items and forms.

For example, let's say an "Interior Detailing" package has been disabled from package and form combinations. If a customer attempts to add another package to their appointment, they will see a pop-up explaining that this package cannot be combined with others.

Once the appointment is booked, the assigned provider or team will not be able to accept any other bookings for this time spot, regardless of their multi-spot settings.

Package Combinations (Form 2) To disable (or enable) combinations with other packages and forms, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2 > Packages

Click "Options", then "Edit" next to the package you would like to update.

Scroll down the page until you see the question, "Can this package be combined with other packages or forms for the same spot?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow this package to be combined with other packages and bookings when a provider has been enabled for multiple appointments.
Ģ Select "No" to only allow this package to be booked on its own with no other appointments sharing the same booking spot.

Once you are finished making changes, click the blue "Save" button to update the package's settings.

Item Combinations (Form 3) To disable (or enable) combinations with other items and forms, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2 > Items

Click "Options", then "Edit" next to the item you would like to update.

Scroll down the page until you see the question, "Can this item be combined with other items or forms for the same spot?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow this item to be combined with other packages and bookings when a provider has been enabled for multiple appointments.
Ģ Select "No" to only allow this item to be booked on its own with no other appointments sharing the same booking spot.

Once you are finished making changes, click the blue "Save" button to update the item's settings.



Smart scheduling overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/smart-scheduling-overview

Smart scheduling overview
Learn everything you can do with the smart scheduling feature and how to set it all up.

Last updated on 01 Sept, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ What is smart scheduling
Ģ How to set it up to your scheduling preferences

What is smart scheduling?
Smart scheduling controls how bookings are assigned to your service providers. All of the BookingKoala subscription plans contain the same smart schedule settings. These settings allow you to partially or fully automate the scheduling process, freeing up time for other important aspects of your business.

Scheduling rules will vary from industry to industry, so we've built many different options to help customize the ways it will work for your business.

Before Your Begin
Before you clear your test data and begin using the software to book appointments, we recommend setting up a few different parts of the system so you can

First, we recommend going through and setting up your booking form(s) . This is the form you or customers will fill out in order to get automatic pricing, check availability, and book services. There are 5 different types of booking forms. Each form represents a different style of providing estimates or pricing services. Click the links below to learn more about each type of form and how to set them up.

Ģ What are industries and booking forms?
Ģ Form 1: Pricing parameters and variables.
Ģ Form 2: Packages.
Ģ Form 3: Items and add-ons.
Ģ Form 4: Unit structure.
Ģ Form 5: Hourly.

Next, you should set up your booking spots . These are the days and times you offer customers to book your services. Booking spots can be set up as fixed start times, like 8 AM, 9 AM, etc., or arrival ranges, like 8-10 AM, 10-12 PM, etc. Visit the links below to learn how to set up booking spots for your business.

Ģ Booking spots overview
Ģ Setting up booking spots by location
Ģ Setting up booking spot limits by date
Ģ How to set up holidays

Once these are finished, you can proceed with setting up your scheduling preferences.

How to Set Up Smart Scheduling for Your Business
As mentioned earlier, smart scheduling can be set up in a variety of ways. Use the following links to learn more about different ways to schedule services with your providers.

Ģ Click here to learn more about the three types of scheduling .
Ģ Click here to set up your smart scheduling rules .

If your teams or providers take on more than one booking per time slot, you can enable multiple appointments or "multi-spot" booking.

Ģ Click here to enable multiple appointments per booking spot.
Ģ Click here to learn more about multi-spot scheduling, including how to set limits per provider or service type.

You can also review the following guides for additional information about how to set up your scheduling.

Ģ Click here to learn more about same-day scheduling , including how to enable or disable it.
Ģ Click here to learn how "N/A" scheduling works and how to use it when booking appointments.
Ģ Click here to learn how to enable the unassigned folder and waitlist features, including how to allow providers to see and pick up bookings from the waitlist.
Ģ Click here to learn more about how staff and admin can use the unassigned folder feature.
Ģ Click here to enable the multiple time zone feature, which helps staff and admin schedule appointments across multiple time zones.

Testing Your Scheduling Rules
Once you have gone through each section and customized how your smart scheduling will work, you can begin testing these rules by creating new bookings.

If you have not cleared your test data yet, you can use the fake customer and fake provider accounts to schedule bookings from the staff/admin end, the provider end, and the customer end.

When you are ready to begin setting up real providers and bookings, it is a good idea to flush your test data. This will remove the fake customer, fake provider and team accounts, the job history for the fake customer and providers, all upcoming bookings for the fake customers and providers, and all fake charges.

Ģ Click here to learn how to flush your test data.

Once you have cleared your test data, you must add at least one location (if your store uses locations) and one service provider with availability to the system. This will allow you and your customers to begin scheduling bookings.

Here is more information about setting up (or disabling) locations for your form(s).

Ģ How to enable or disable locations
Ģ How to set up locations for every type of form
Ģ How to set up name-based locations instead of zip/postal code locations

You can use the following guides to add your providers to the system and set up their schedules.

Ģ How to add a provider or team
Ģ How to set up provider and team schedules/availability.
Ģ How to customize a provider or team's general settings and permissions
Ģ How to customize what types of services a provider can be scheduled for
Ģ How to use the provider "quick-add" tool to set up or modify provider schedules and settings

If you are having any issues, you can check out this article to help diagnose which problem you are having with your scheduler and how to fix it. You are also welcome to email us at support@bookingkoala.com and we can take a closer look at your store to help sort out any scheduling or availability issues.



Three types of scheduling
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/three-types-of-scheduling

Three types of scheduling
Learn more about the three different styles of scheduling in BookingKoala.

Last updated on 05 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How each type of scheduling works
Ģ Where to set up your scheduling preferences

Scheduling Types
There are three different types of scheduling in BookingKoala.

442 Accepted Automatically: Whenever someone books or reschedules an appointment, it will be automatically assigned to a provider or team based on availability and priority.
? You can set your provider priority by going to the Providers page and clicking on the orange "Set Priority" button.
? Drag and drop providers to reorder their priority, then click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.
? Click here to learn how to open availability and set schedules for your providers.
? Customers will receive a "Receipt Email" and "Booking Confirmed" email automatically after scheduling an appointment to let them know a provider has been assigned to their booking.
443 Accept or Decline: Whenever someone books or reschedules an appointment, an invitation will be sent to each provider in order of priority, asking them if they would like to accept the job. If they decline or the waiting period has passed, the next provider on the list will be notified. This process will continue until a provider picks up the job.
? By default, accept or decline scheduling will place all new bookings into the unassigned folder until a provider accepts the booking invitation or picks it up.
? Providers can be notified whenever a new booking comes into the unassigned folder.
? Providers can pick up jobs from the unassigned folder at any point during the process.
? If all providers decline a job, it will stay in the unassigned folder where it is visible to all eligible providers.
? Invitations to pending jobs are sent out one at a time, meaning the provider must accept or decline the job before they can see additional booking invitations.
? Providers will be blocked from other bookings until they accept or decline the invitation unless you manually assign a job to them or they pick one up from the unassigned folder.
? If a provider grabs a job from the unassigned folder instead of accepting a job invitation, the invitation will be automatically sent to the next provider in line.
? Customers will receive a "Receipt Email" confirming the booking details once they submit a booking.
? Customers will not receive the "Booking Confirmed" email until a provider has accepted the job.
? If a job is rescheduled, customers will receive a "Booking Modified" email as soon as a new provider grabs the job.
? If a job is canceled, a "Never Found a Provider" email will be sent to the customer letting them know that you were unable to locate a provider for the job.
444 Accepts Same Day Only: This type is a combination of both "Accepted Automatically" and "Accept or Decline" scheduling. All jobs set beyond today's date will be assigned automatically based on availability and priority, while all same-day bookings will trigger accept/decline notifications.
? This option saves a lot of manual labor if you previously had to contact each provider for same-day requests.
? Customers booking after today will receive a "Receipt Email" and "Booking Confirmed" upon booking.
? Same-day customers will only receive a "Booking Confirmed" email after a provider has accepted the job.
? If a job is canceled, a "Never Found a Provider" email will be sent to the customer letting them know that you were unable to locate a provider for the job.

Set Your Scheduling Type
To change the type of scheduling your store uses, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Scheduling tab.

Next, click on the "Scheduling" section to expand it.

Scroll down until you see the question, "How would you like the system to assign bookings to your providers?" and select one of the options:
Ģ Accepted Automatically
Ģ Accepts Same Day Only
Ģ Accept or Decline

If you selected "Accepts Same Day Only" or "Accept or Decline", there will be another option to control how long they have to accept the job before another provider is notified of the new job.

Under "How long do providers/teams have to accept the job before it is passed on to the next provider/team?", enter the length of time into the "hours" and "minutes" boxes.

If you are finished making changes in this section, be sure to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page.



N/A (not available) scheduling
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/n-a-not-available-scheduling

N/A (not available) scheduling
Learn more about the "NA" tag and why it is added to a booking when a provider is considered unavailable.

Last updated on 18 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What is the "NA" tag
Ģ What causes the "NA" tag to appear

What is "NA" scheduling?
One of the many tags used in BookingKoala, "NA" stands for "not available" and is used to let you know when a booking has been assigned to a provider outside of their regular availability.

For example, we can see that the "NA" tag has been added below the provider's name when viewing the Upcoming Bookings section in the list view.

If you are viewing your bookings in calendar view, click on the booking to view any associated tags in the menu that appears on the right.

"NA" Reasons
"NA" will always appear because the provider does not have availability for the entire job that has been assigned to them. There are several factors that determine if a provider is "not available" for a booking.

Missing/Limited Availability

A provider will be considered "not available" if they do not have working hours for the selected date and time.

For example, let's say a provider works the following schedule:
Ģ Sunday - OFF
Ģ Monday - 8 AM to 12 PM
Ģ Tuesday - 8 AM to 12 PM
Ģ Wednesday - 8 AM to 12 PM
Ģ Thursday - OFF
Ģ Friday - OFF
Ģ Saturday - OFF

If that provider picks up a booking from the unassigned folder for a Friday, the job will have an NA tag added to it. This is because the provider does not have any availability on Fridays.

The "NA" tag will also be added to a booking if the provider is not available for the entire booking length.

For example, let's say a provider is available from 10 AM to 2 PM. If they grab a 4-hour appointment that starts at 12 PM, the booking will be scheduled as "NA".

This is because the provider only has the availability to work until 2 PM, however, the job is estimated to take four hours and starts at 12 PM. This means that the provider would be working 2 hours past their regular availability.

Click here to learn how to update a provider's availability.

Double Bookings

The "NA" tag is added whenever a booking overlaps the next service assigned to that provider or team.

For example, let's say a provider has a four-hour booking scheduled for 8 AM. If you manually schedule another job with them at 11 AM, the 8 AM booking will be updated to include an "NA" tag.

Because the provider's first job is set to end after the second job is to begin, the system considers the provider to be unavailable for the first job.

If you'd like to remove the NA tag from the first booking, you can adjust that job's length to be shorter.

Click here to learn how to use the booking length and price adjustment features.

Travel/Non-Travel Break Compliance

If you use travel/non-travel breaks to build a period between bookings, the "NA" tag will be added to any bookings that extend into this buffer.

For example, let's say a provider has a 1-hour travel time break in between bookings.

If a 2-hour job is set at 8 AM, and another job is scheduled for 10 AM, the 8 AM job will have a "NA" tag added to it. This happens because the first job does not include enough travel time to get to the second job. If the second job is rescheduled to 11 AM instead, the tag will be removed from the 8 AM job.

Click here to learn how to set up travel and non-travel breaks as a part of your scheduling settings.



Same-day scheduling
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/same-day-scheduling

Same-day scheduling
Learn how to enable or disable same-day scheduling for customers.

Last updated on 09 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to set up same-day scheduling
Ģ How to disable same-day scheduling

Same-Day Scheduling
Admin and staff accounts have a great amount of flexibility when it comes to scheduling appointments. Bookings can be scheduled up to 6 months into the future, on the day of the service, or up to 30 days in the past.

If you would also like to allow customers to book same-day services, you can update the settings under your Customer Store Options section. To begin, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

Click on the "Customer" tab at the top of the page.

Next, click on the "Bookings" section to expand and display the various settings.

Scroll down until you see the question, "Would you like to allow customers to book appointments for the same day?"

Select "Yes" to enable same-day scheduling for customers.

Ģ If you've enabled same-day scheduling, provide an answer to the following question, "Would you like to set a limit as to how early a customer can book a same-day appointment?"
? Select "Yes" to set a limit of up to 24 hours before the desired booking time.
Ģ For example, if your limit is set to 3 hours before the start time, a customer booking at 8 AM will not see availability until 11 AM or after.
? Select "No" to allow customers to book a service without any buffer between scheduling and the job's start time.
Ģ For example, a customer can schedule a booking at 11:59 AM for 12:00 PM (just one minute later).

If you selected "No" to allow same-day appointments, set the time and days for "When is the latest the customer is allowed to book?"

Ģ Use the boxes to set the time of day and number of days before the job.
? For example, if you set the latest a customer can book to 5 PM one day before the job, customers would need to schedule next-day services no later than 5 PM. If they check availability at 5:01 PM, they will not see any spots until the following day.

Once you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page to update your customer settings.



How do providers/teams receive bookings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-do-providers-teams-recieve-bookings

How do providers/teams receive bookings
You will learn more about the three types of scheduling and view live examples of how providers/teams receive bookings.

Last updated on 05 Jul, 2022

[Video: How do providers and teams receive all jobs]
(The video content could not be extracted due to YouTube blocking the request.)



Set up your "Store Info" section
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-store-info-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

General

Set up your "Store Info" section

Learn how to change your store name, domain, currency, customer payment options, and other general settings.

Last updated on 05 Oct, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Upload a business logo

Upload a business logo
Ģ Change your business name

Change your business name
Ģ View your store currency

View your store currency
Ģ Change your store/account email

Change your store/account email
Ģ Set your time zone

Set your time zone
Ģ Set your time format

Set your time format
Ģ Set your date format

Set your date format
Ģ Add country codes for phone numbers

Add country codes for phone numbers
Ģ Change your contact phone number

Change your contact phone number
Ģ Set your phone number format

Set your phone number format
Ģ Select which forms of payment you would like to accept

Select which forms of payment you would like to accept
Ģ Enable which types of forms you would like to offer

Enable which types of forms you would like to offer
Ģ Manage the colors for the "calendar view"

Manage the colors for the "calendar view"
Ģ Set filter preferences

Set filter preferences
Ģ Change the name of the "service fee" to something else

Change the name of the "service fee" to something else

Store Info Settings

The "Store Info" section under yourGeneral Store Optionscontains a lot of the basic details about your business. To customize these options, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click theplus signiconto expand the "Store Info" section.

Upload a Logo

You can upload your business logo at the top of this section. The image should not be more than225 x 50 pixelsin size or it will be resized by the system.Ā The allowed file types areJPG,JPEG,PNG, andGIF.

We recommend having atransparent backgroundfor the image so it can be better integrated into your site's overall design. This logo will be displayed on the front- and back-end of the website, including inside customer accounts, provider's accounts, admin/staff accounts, and inside all of your notifications.

Click the blue "Browse" button to select the file from your device. Be sure to click "Save" at the bottom of the screen to update the logo.

You can also upload your logo by going to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

If you update the logo on the website builder, it will be updated in the general settings as well. To learn more about customizing your website and themes, pleaseclick here.

Business Name

Your original business name is used to create your subdomain and notification signatures. Click inside thetextboxto edit the name.

You can change the business name at any time, but it will not update your domain.

If you'd like to set up a custom domain, you canclick herefor more information.

Store Currency

You can view your store's currency in this section.Ā This is selected when you are first setting up your account.

You cannot change your currency after your store has been created. ĀIf you do need to change your currency, please email our support team so we can manually update it for you.

Email

This section shows the email you used to sign up for BookingKoala.Ā This will be used as the business email displayed at the bottom of your email notifications in place of the{{.SupportEmail}}shortcode.Click hereto learn more about how shortcodes work.

You can change this email address and anytime and it will not impact your admin login email.

If you would like to change your admin/account login email address, please go to:

Settings > Account > Your Info

You can also select a different email address to send out your notifications. To do this, go to:

Settings > Notifications > General

Enter the new email into the "Sender email address" box and click the blue "Resend Verification Email" button.Ā You will receive an email to verify the new address.Ā ĀBack under the general notifications section, click the blue "Update" button to save the new email settings.

Click hereto learn more about notifications in BookingKoala.

Time Zone

Select which time zone your business operates in.

For clients in the United States who observe Daylight Saving Time, please use the following key to select a timezone that will automatically move the clock forward and backward one hour on the designated dates.
Ģ EST5EDT- Eastern Standard Time/Eastern Daylight Time

EST5EDT- Eastern Standard Time/Eastern Daylight Time
Ģ CST6CDT- Central Standard Time/Central Daylight Time

CST6CDT- Central Standard Time/Central Daylight Time
Ģ MST7MDT- Mountain Standard Time/Mountain Daylight Time

MST7MDT- Mountain Standard Time/Mountain Daylight Time
Ģ PST8MDT- Pacific Standard Time/Pacific Daylight Time

PST8MDT- Pacific Standard Time/Pacific Daylight Time

If your business services multiple time zones, select yourpersonal time zonein this section.Ā There is an option to enable the "multiple time zone" feature which can be enabled further down in theGeneraltab.

Click hereto learn more about how multiple time zones work in BookingKoala.

Time Format

Select which time format your business operates in.Ā The options available for the time format are:
Ģ 12-hourtimeFor example: 8:30 AM, 5:30 PM

12-hourtime
Ģ For example: 8:30 AM, 5:30 PM

For example: 8:30 AM, 5:30 PM
Ģ 24-hourtimeFor example: 8:30, 17:30

24-hourtime
Ģ For example: 8:30, 17:30

For example: 8:30, 17:30

Date Format

Select how you'd like dates to be displayed in the system. This format is what you and your customers will see.

Here are the options using the first day of May in the year 2022 as an example.
Ģ DD/MM/YYYY- date/month/yearFor example: 01/05/2022

DD/MM/YYYY- date/month/year
Ģ For example: 01/05/2022

For example: 01/05/2022
Ģ MM/DD/YYYY- month/date/yearFor example: 05/01/2022

MM/DD/YYYY- month/date/year
Ģ For example: 05/01/2022

For example: 05/01/2022
Ģ YYYY/MM/DD- year/month/dateFor example: 2022/05/01

YYYY/MM/DD- year/month/date
Ģ For example: 2022/05/01

For example: 2022/05/01
Ģ DD-MM-YYYY- date-month-yearFor example: 01-05-2022

DD-MM-YYYY- date-month-year
Ģ For example: 01-05-2022

For example: 01-05-2022
Ģ MM-DD-YYYY- month-date-yearFor example: 05-01-2022

MM-DD-YYYY- month-date-year
Ģ For example: 05-01-2022

For example: 05-01-2022
Ģ YYYY-MM-DD- year-month-dateFor example: 2022-05-10

YYYY-MM-DD- year-month-date
Ģ For example: 2022-05-10

For example: 2022-05-10

Would you like to give the option to add the country code for phone numbers?

If you have international customers, you can choose to allow customers to include their country code when entering their phone number.

Select "Yes" to enable this feature.

Phone Number

Enter your business's contact phone number in this section.Ā This number will be displayed wherever the{{.SupportPhone}} shortcodeis used in your email and SMS notifications.

The support number can be updated at any time.

Phone Number Format

Select how you would like phone numbers to be displayed in the system. This format is what you and your customers will see.

Here are the options you can pick from:
Ģ 999-999-9999

999-999-9999
Ģ 999 999 9999

999 999 9999
Ģ (999) 999-9999

(999) 999-9999
Ģ (999) 999 9999

(999) 999 9999
Ģ (99) 9999-9999

(99) 9999-9999
Ģ 9999999999

9999999999
Ģ 99999 999 999

99999 999 999
Ģ 9999 999 9999

9999 999 9999
Ģ 99 99999-9999

99 99999-9999
Ģ 9999-9999999

9999-9999999
Ģ 9999 9999

9999 9999
Ģ 9999 99 99 99

9999 99 99 99
Ģ 999 999

999 999
Ģ 999 999 999

999 999 999
Ģ 999 99-9999-9999

999 99-9999-9999
Ģ 999 999999

999 999999
Ģ 999 9999

999 9999
Ģ 9999 999 999

9999 999 999
Ģ 999 999 99 99

999 999 99 99
Ģ 9 999 999-99-99

9 999 999-99-99
Ģ 99 99 99 99

99 99 99 99
Ģ (99)99999-9999

(99)99999-9999
Ģ 999 9999999

999 9999999
Ģ 99 99

99 99
Ģ 99 999 999

99 999 999
Ģ 99 99 99 99 99

99 99 99 99 99
Ģ 99999 9999999

99999 9999999
Ģ 99999 99999

99999 99999
Ģ 999-9999-9999

999-9999-9999
Ģ 99 999 99999

99 999 99999
Ģ 9999

9999

Accepted Forms of Payment

Here, you can select which type(s) of payment your customers can use when booking. Customers can pay using a debit or credit card, selecting "cash/check", or both.

For example, if youunselect"Cash/Check" and click "Save", customers will be required to enter a valid debit or credit card to book online.Ā Staff and admin will always have access to both the credit/debit card and cash/check options.

If you would like to collect payments via credit/debit cards,click hereto learn more about how to set up and connect a payment processor to BookingKoala.

What type(s) of form(s) do you want to offer?

All paid subscriptions have the option to use booking forms, lead forms, or both.
Ģ Booking Formsallow customers to view pricing, check availability, and schedule a service by themselves. You can control whether the service is automatically assigned to a provider, manually assigned by an admin, or alerts available providers about the new unassigned booking.To learn more about booking forms and how to begin setting them up,click here.Once a service is booked, it can be viewed under theBookingssection in your dashboard.You can modify the appearance of your booking forms by opening the website builder and selecting the "Book Now" page from the top center menu.Scheduling settings are discussed in more detail in theSchedulingsection ofStore Options.Click hereto learn more.

Booking Formsallow customers to view pricing, check availability, and schedule a service by themselves. You can control whether the service is automatically assigned to a provider, manually assigned by an admin, or alerts available providers about the new unassigned booking.
Ģ To learn more about booking forms and how to begin setting them up,click here.

To learn more about booking forms and how to begin setting them up,click here.
Ģ Once a service is booked, it can be viewed under theBookingssection in your dashboard.

Once a service is booked, it can be viewed under theBookingssection in your dashboard.
Ģ You can modify the appearance of your booking forms by opening the website builder and selecting the "Book Now" page from the top center menu.

You can modify the appearance of your booking forms by opening the website builder and selecting the "Book Now" page from the top center menu.
Ģ Scheduling settings are discussed in more detail in theSchedulingsection ofStore Options.Click hereto learn more.

Scheduling settings are discussed in more detail in theSchedulingsection ofStore Options.Click hereto learn more.
Ģ Lead Formsallow customers to submit a request for a quote or inquire more about your services.Ā Once submitted, leads will be collected in theLeadssection of your dashboard.Lead forms can be customized to collect whatever information is required to ensure you can provide an accurate quote.Click hereto learn how to set up lead forms and add them to your website.Once you receive a lead, you can follow up with the client to provide more information about the services.You can modify the appearance of your lead forms by opening the website builder and selecting the "Contact Us" page from the top center menu.

Lead Formsallow customers to submit a request for a quote or inquire more about your services.Ā Once submitted, leads will be collected in theLeadssection of your dashboard.
Ģ Lead forms can be customized to collect whatever information is required to ensure you can provide an accurate quote.Click hereto learn how to set up lead forms and add them to your website.

Lead forms can be customized to collect whatever information is required to ensure you can provide an accurate quote.Click hereto learn how to set up lead forms and add them to your website.
Ģ Once you receive a lead, you can follow up with the client to provide more information about the services.

Once you receive a lead, you can follow up with the client to provide more information about the services.
Ģ You can modify the appearance of your lead forms by opening the website builder and selecting the "Contact Us" page from the top center menu.

You can modify the appearance of your lead forms by opening the website builder and selecting the "Contact Us" page from the top center menu.

If you decide to offer both lead forms and booking forms, customers can navigate to the "Book Now" page or the "Contact Us" page.

How do you want to manage the colors in your admin booking calendar?

This setting affects how bookings are color-coded when incalendar view.

To view the schedule in the calendar view, look for theschedule view iconsnear the top of any section that contains bookings and click thecalendar icon.

If you select "Booking type-based", your bookings will be color-coded according to the booking's status.

If you select "Provider-based", you can set a color for each provider or team.
Ģ To set a color for each provider or team, go to the "Providers"section and click on the provider/team name to be brought to their dashboard.

To set a color for each provider or team, go to the "Providers"section and click on the provider/team name to be brought to their dashboard.
Ģ Click on their "Profile" tab at the top of the page, and then scroll down until you see the box for "Booking Color".

Click on their "Profile" tab at the top of the page, and then scroll down until you see the box for "Booking Color".
Ģ Select the color from the box on the right, or type in the color's HEX code in the box on the left.

Select the color from the box on the right, or type in the color's HEX code in the box on the left.
Ģ Click the blue "Update" button at the bottom of the page to update the provider's color.

Click the blue "Update" button at the bottom of the page to update the provider's color.

Would you like to remember the last selected option in filter(s)?

Whenever you apply afrequency,industry, orlocationfilter to a booking section, it will display only bookings that fit that category.

When you select "Yes" for this question, the filters you selected will stay applied when you navigate away from that section.

Select "No" if you'd like the filters to reset every time you leave a page.

For example, if you selected "No", you can apply whichever filters you like at the top of the page. When you navigate to another section of the software and go back to the booking page after, the filters will be reset back to "All Frequencies", "All Industries", and "All Locations".

Would you like to change the name "Service Fee" to something else inside your store?

You can add aservice feeto a customer's bill under theLocationssection of the booking form.Ā This fee is displayed on the booking summary as well as notifications that contain pricing details.

If you would like to change the name from "service fee" to something else, select "Yes" and enter the new name in the box below.

Remember to Save!

If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Log in as a customer or provider
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/logging-in-as-a-customer

Log in as a customer or provider
Learn how to log in as a customer or provider without logging out of your admin account.

Last updated on 28 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Log in as a customer without exiting your admin account
Ģ Log in as a provider without leaving your admin account

Why would I log in as the customer or provider?
One of the many options located in BookingKoala, you can visit any customer or provider account and log in as that user. You may want to do this for a few reasons:
445 See what the customer or provider dashboard is set up
446 Guide a customer or provider on how to navigate their dashboard
447 To see how your customer or provider permissions have impacted their account
448 Troubleshoot app or account issues

Log In as a Customer
To log in as a customer, you must first locate the customer's dashboard in your system.

To do this, you can either search the customer's name, email address, phone number, or address in the top search bar, or you can select them from: Customers > Customers

Click on the customer's name to be redirected to their dashboard.

Then, click the green "Log In As User" button in the top-right corner of the page.

After you click this button, you'll see a green system notification letting you know you've been successfully logged in as the customer. Once the page loads, you will see the account as if you are the customer.

Once you are finished, you can switch back to your admin dashboard by clicking on the "Log In As Admin" button at the top right corner of the page.

Please note: If you have any other tabs open that are logged in as the admin, those tabs will reload as the customer's dashboard you are logged into. Once you log out as a customer, these tabs will also log you back in as an admin.

Log In as a Provider
The process for logging in as a provider is the same as if you are logging in as a customer.

Search the provider's name, email address, phone number, or address in the top search bar, or you can select them from: Providers > Providers

Click on the provider's name to be redirected to their dashboard.

Then, click the green "Log In As User" button in the top-right corner of the page.

After you click this button, you'll see a green system notification letting you know you've been successfully logged in as the provider. Once the page loads, you will see the account as if you are the provider.

Once you are finished, you can switch back to your admin dashboard by clicking on the "Log In As Admin" button at the top right corner of the page.

Please note: If you have any other tabs open that are logged in as the admin, those tabs will reload as the customer's dashboard you are logged into. Once you log out as a customer, these tabs will also log you back in as an admin.



Enable the customer and provider "My Drive" feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/enabling-the-customer-and-provider-my-drive-option

Enable the customer and provider "My Drive" feature
What is the "My Drive" feature?
The "My Drive" feature allows the admin to share files with customers and/or providers through their BookingKoala account.

Navigation Paths to "My Drive"
Ģ For Providers: Go to Providers > Providers > [Provider Name] > My Drive
Ģ For Customers: Go to Customers > Customers > [Customer Name] > My Drive

How to upload a file into "My Drive"
449 Click on the "My Drive" tab to open the section.
450 Click the blue "Browse" button to select the files you'd like to upload.
451 (Optional) Add a Note into the box below for reference. This will show up as a "tooltip" next to the file name.
452 Click the blue "Save" button to upload the file.

Features and How They Work
Ģ Viewing Notes: Once a file is uploaded, it can be found in the section below. Hover over the note icon next to the file name to view your note.
Ģ Hiding Files: If you'd like to hide the file from the customer or provider, click the orange "Make Private" button.
Ģ Showing Files: To make the file "public" again, click the green "Private" button.
Ģ File Management: You can also download the file or delete it altogether.
Ģ Customer/Provider Access: On the customer/provider end, users can select the "My Drive" option from the main menu to download the files you've uploaded.
Ģ Customer/Provider Uploads: If enabled, customers and providers can also upload files to share with you and your staff.

Enabling "My Drive" for Customers
Navigation Path
Go to Settings > General > Store Options > Customer

Step-by-step Instructions
453 Scroll down to the "General" section and click the "+" icon to expand it.
454 Scroll down until you find the question, "Would you like to enable the "My Drive" option for your customers?" and select "Yes". This will allow you and your staff to upload files directly into their account.
455 You can also decide if you would like to allow customers to upload files into the My Drive section under the question, "Would you like to allow your customers to upload files inside their accounts?"
? Select "Yes" to allow customers to upload files as well.
? Select "No" to only allow staff and admin to upload files into their My Drive.
456 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
457 You will now see a "My Drive" tab when you visit your customer's dashboard.

Enabling "My Drive" for Providers
Navigation Path
Go to Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Step-by-step Instructions
458 Scroll down to the "Booking" section and click the "+" icon to expand it.
459 Scroll down until you find the question, "Would you like each provider to have a "My Drive" option to share their documents?" and select "Yes". This will allow you and your staff to upload files directly into their account.
460 You can also decide if you would like to allow providers to upload files into the My Drive section under the question, "Would you like to allow your providers to upload files?"
? Select "Yes" to allow providers to upload files as well.
? Select "No" to only allow staff and admin to upload files into their My Drive.
461 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
462 You will now see a "My Drive" tab when you visit your provider's dashboard.



How to enable multiple appointments per booking spot
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-multispot-settings-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

How to enable multiple appointments per booking spot
Learn how to enable multispot scheduling so providers can be scheduled for multiple appointments at the same date and start time.

Last updated on 05 Jul, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable the multi-spot setting to allow providers to receive more than one booking at the same time

Multispot Settings
The Multi-spot Settings section under the General Store Options tab allows you to enable the "multiple appointments" feature. Multiple appointments, or "multi-spot" booking, is a feature that allows customers to book a certain provider more than one time for the same date and time spot.

For example, in the dog walking industry, a dog walker may take out multiple clients' dogs at the same time if they are in the same neighborhood. By enabling multi-spot appointments, the business can set how many appointments the provider received for any given date and time.

To start, go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Multi-spot Settings" section.

Would you like to activate the multiple appointments per booking spot feature?
To enable multiple appointments per booking spot, select "Yes" to this question.

Next, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.

Click here to view the multiple booking spots overview and set up guide for providers and booking forms.



How to enable the multiple time zone feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/multiple-time-zones

How to enable the multiple time zone feature
Learn how multiple timezones work and how to enable this feature.

Last updated on 08 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable the multiple time zones feature
Ģ Understand how the multiple time zones feature works

What is the multiple time zones feature?
If your business operates in multiple time zones, you may want to enable the multiple time zones feature.

This will allow you to see the real-time at your customer's location as well as the time in your own timezone (the admin timezone can be selected and changed at any time under the General Settings in the Store Info section).

Enabling Multiple Time Zones
To enable multiple time zones, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General > Time Zone Settings

Scroll down the Time Zone Settings section and click the plus sign icon to expand.

Select "Yes" for "Would you like to activate the multiple time zones feature?" and then click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Once enabled, any bookings that are outside of the store's time zone will display two start times.
Ģ The start time in the black text is the customer's local time.
Ģ The start time in the orange text shows the admin's local time.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.

Updating your Locations
Once you have enabled the multiple time zones feature, you will need to update your locations and add time zones to them for the feature to function as anticipated. To do so, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > 1. Locations

Once you are on the Locations page, select "Options" then "Edit" next to a location to open its settings.

Then, select a timezone from the timezone dropdown menu.

Please note: If you live in the United States and observe Daylight Saving Time (DST) please select one of the following options so the clock automatically changes twice per year in your BookingKoala calendar.
Ģ EST5EDT - US Eastern Time
Ģ CST6CDT - US Central Time
Ģ MST7MDT - US Mountain Time
Ģ PST8PDT - US Pacific Time

Once you have selected your timezone for the location, click the blue "Next" buttons until you reach "Update". Click the blue "Update" button to update your location.



How to set up payments and automatic charges
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-payment-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

How to set up payments and automatic charges
Learn how to set up your customer payments, including enabling automatic charges, pre-charges, and refunded payment rules.

Last updated on 03 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Set rules for charging unassigned bookings
Ģ Set up automatic charging for some or all booking types
Ģ Make selections for how refunds and declined charges are handled in the system

Payment Settings
This section contains all of the settings for your customer's payment options, including options for setting up automatic charging and pre-charge rules.

To manage your Payment settings, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Payment" section.

Do you want to allow a booking charged even if it's unassigned?
Ģ Choose "Yes" to allow bookings in the unassigned folder to be charged. This means that a provider does not need to be assigned to a booking for it to be moved to the Pending Charges section once the booking time has passed.
Ģ Choose "No" to block unassigned bookings from being charged. This means past bookings will remain in the Unassigned Folder until they are canceled or rescheduled.

Do you want bookings to be automatically charged after they are done? Another feature you can set up in this section is automatic charging. This may save time if you manage many different bookings each day.
Automatic charging can be enabled for some or all of your industries and services, so you can customize the types of jobs that are charged in this manner. You can also customize when the charge will occur and which types of payment methods this applies to.
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable automatic charging.
Ģ Select "No" to process all charges manually.

When should the bookings be charged? If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, pick an option for when you would like the automatic charge to occur.
Ģ Immediately - The booking will be charged as soon as it is "completed". The system considers a booking to be complete once the job length has passed.
? For example, if a 3-hour booking starts at 8:00 AM, the system will consider it completed after 11:00 AM.
? If automatic charging is enabled, the charge for this booking would be processed at 11:01 AM.
Ģ [#] hours after booking completion - The booking will be charged a specific number of hours after completion.
? Using the same booking as an example, if you enter "2" into the "hours" box, the booking will be charged at 1:01 PM.
? The booking is considered complete at 11:01 AM, so the automatic charge will be processed 2 hours after this time, at 1:01 PM.
Ģ At this time [##:##] [AM/PM] the day after job completion - The booking will be charged the following day at a set time.
? For example, if you enter the time "10:00 AM", all pending charges for the previous day will be processed at this time.

Which services does this apply to? You can customize which service categories will be charged automatically by checking the boxnext to its name.
In the example below, all of the home cleaning industry is enabled to automatically charge EXCEPT the two re-clean options, and NONE of the pet groomer service categories are enabled to automatically charge at all.
You may have a service category or industry requiring an admin to adjust before charging. You can uncheck the boxes for those services to ensure that no jobs in this category/industry are automatically charged.PLEASE NOTE: Whenever a new service category is created, it is not automatically added to the auto charge. You must enable automatic charging after creating the category.

Which payment methods does this apply to?Select which payment methods you would like to be charged automatically.
Check theboxes next to "Credit/Debit card" and/or "Cash/Check" to include those types of payment methods when automatically processing charges.

When a booking is pre-charged with a card, then updated to cash/check, should we refund the charge?
If you pre-charge customers before their appointment has happened, decide how the system should handle updating the payment method.
Ģ Select "Yes" to refund the pre-charged amount to the customer's credit/debit card.
Ģ Select "No" to keep the pre-charge when switching the booking to cash/check.

Should the system refund the additional amount charged if the booking was pre-charged and later the amount was decreased, provided there are no existing refund logs? (Refunds will be processed upon booking completion)
This setting allows you to decide whether you would like to refund any difference in price if the pre-charge amount ends up being more than the final booking total.
Ģ Select "Yes" for the system to automatically refund the difference once the booking has been completed.
? For example, the total for a 3-hour booking at 8 AM is precharged $200. During the service, the client excludes a service they had originally scheduled. The booking is updated and the new total is $180. Once the booking is finished at 11 AM, the system will process a refund of $20. $200 (pre-charge) - $180 (final total) = -$20 (automatically processed as a refund)

If there have been refunds on the booking and the total amount changes, how would you like the system to handle any additional charges or refunds?
Ģ Consider Refund - If you choose this option, the system will consider both the amount charged initially and any refunds issued, ensuring accurate adjustments to the booking total.
Ģ Do Not Consider Refund - By selecting this option, the system will base adjustments solely on the initial charged amount, without considering any refunds issued previously.

Should the system refund any extra charges if the booking was pre-charged and the total amount was subsequently reduced, given that there are existing refund records? (Refunds will be processed upon booking completion.)
Ģ Yes, refund the additional amount. - If you choose this option, the difference between the precharged amount and the final total will be automatically refunded back to the customer.
Ģ No, do not refund the additional amount. - If you choose this option, you retain the full precharged payment of the booking.

What should happen when a charge is declined while pre-payment of booking?
Decide how you'd like the system to respond when a pre-payment charge is declined.
Ģ Select "Add booking & notify admin & leave the booking as it is" for the system to notify you whenever this happens. The booking will be saved and remain confirmed regardless of whether the pre-charge is collected or not.
Ģ Select "Add booking, notify admin & cancel before 24 hours if not yet updated" for the system to notify you and save the booking into the system. If the pre-charge is not collected 24 hours before the start time, the booking will be canceled by the system.
? To ensure that you are notified about booking cancelations due to card hold failure, make sure you have enabled the "Booking canceled due to card hold failure" notifications.
Ģ These can be enabled for email and/or SMS by going to Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Admin > Canceled Booking.
? To ensure that your customers are notified about booking cancelations due to card hold failure, make sure you have enabled the "Booking canceled due to card hold failure" notifications.
Ģ These can be enabled for email and/or SMS by going to Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Customer > Canceled Booking.

Do you want to send individual charge notifications to the customer with the bulk charge or invoice charge?
Suppose Booking 1, Booking 2, and Booking 3 are bookings or invoices that are $100 each and when a full charge is performed, then a single charge notification is sent to the customer in the total amount of $300.
Ģ Select "Yes" if you want individual charge notifications for each $100 booking will be sent to the customer along with the single $300 charge notification
Ģ Select "No" if you only want the customer to receive a single $300 charge notification.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Add your location name to the customer's address
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-address-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

Add your location name to the customer's address
Learn how to add your custom location names to the end of a customer's address.

Last updated on 14 Mar, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable location names to be added to customer addresses

Address Settings
To manage your general Address Settings, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Address Settings" section.

Would you like to show the location name at the end of the address?
Ģ Select "Yes" if you would like to include the location name you set up at the end of your customer's address in the system.
? For example, let's say one of your service areas is called "Uptown". This area contains all zip codes for the northern section of a city.
? A customer schedules a booking for 4545 N. Sheridan Road, Chicago, IL 60640 in this service area.
? When this setting is enabled, their address will be displayed in the system as 4545 N. Sheridan Road, Chicago, IL 60640 - Uptown.
Ģ Select "No" to keep the address format as entered by the customer.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



How to set up reschedule fees
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-rescheduling-fees-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

How to set up reschedule fees
Learn how to set up and charge fees whenever a customer rescheduled and/or postpones their service.

Last updated on 04 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Learn how reschedule fees work
Ģ Set up rescheduling fees

Rescheduling Fees
Rescheduling fees are fees that are charged when a customer rescheduled their booking within a certain period before the start of the appointment.

When a rescheduling fee is in place, the customer will see a pop-up informing them that they will be charged a cancelation fee if they decide to reschedule their appointment.

Rescheduling fees can compensate the business and provider for lost work.

To manage your Rescheduling Fee settings, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Rescheduling Fee" section.

Would you like to charge a rescheduling fee?
If you do not want to charge customers a fee when they reschedule, select "No" to this question.

If you would like to charge a customer a fee when they reschedule services, select "Yes" and enter the amount in the box below.

The fee can be set as a fixed rate by selecting the "$" from the drop-down menu or selecting "%" for a percentage-based discount.

Override the Service Category Settings
Rescheduling fees can also be customized for each service category in your booking form. If you would like your General Settings to override any rescheduling fees you have already set up, check the box next to: [Override the Service Category Settings]

What do you consider a rescheduled booking?
This option allows you to choose what the system considers as "rescheduling" a booking. This directly impacts how your system alerts and notifications work when bookings are rescheduled.

Ģ If you check the box next to "Date", the system will consider a booking as "rescheduled" specifically if the date changes.
Ģ If you check the box next to "Time (Spots)", the system will consider a booking as "rescheduled" specifically if the booking's start time changes.
Ģ If you select "Any changes made to the booking", the system will consider any updates to any of the booking details as having "rescheduled" the booking. For example, if a customer adds a new service but does not change the date or time.

You can select up to all three options depending on your preference.

When would you like the system to charge the customer a rescheduling fee?
Use this to set when the rescheduling fee will be charged. You can choose between two options:

Ģ If the customer reschedules after a specific time the day before the job.
? For example, if you set the boxes to be "05:00" and "PM", customers will be charged the fee if they reschedule any time after 5:01 PM the day before the booking.
Ģ If the customer rescheduled less than a specific amount of hours before the job starts.
? For example, you can select the number of hours up to 120, meaning the customer will be charged a fee if they reschedule less than 5 days before the booking.
? If you would like to charge a fee any time a customer reschedules at all, you can select "00".

Below, select any additional rescheduling fee settings that fit your business's needs.

Exclude Same-Day Bookings
Check this box if you would not like to charge a rescheduling fee if a booking is added to the schedule today and then rescheduled.

Multiple Rescheduling Fees
Check this box if you would like to charge multiple rescheduling fees each time a booking is rescheduled within a 24 hours period.

For example: Let's say a customer reschedules their booking at 8:00 AM today. At 8:05 AM, they realized they selected the wrong date and rescheduled again.

When this setting is enabled, the customer will be charged the rescheduling fee at 8:00 AM and again at 8:05 AM.

Booking Postpone Fees
Check this box if you would to charge the rescheduling fee when a customer postpones their service.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Set up cancellation fees & reasons
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-cancelation-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

Set up cancellation fees & reasons
Learn how to set up your cancellation settings, including when a customer can cancel and if fees will be charged.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Set up cancelation fees
Ģ Create and enable cancelation reasons

Cancelation Settings
This section contains all the settings that determine what happens in the system when a customer cancels their booking.

To manage your general Cancelation settings, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the " Cancelation " section.

Do you charge a cancellation fee?
If you select " No", your customers will not be charged a cancelation fee under any circumstance.
If you would like to charge a fee when a customer cancels their booking, select "Yes ".

Do you want to set a single cancellation fee or multiple cancellation fees?
Select " Single" if you would like a single cancellation fee.
The fee can be set as afixed rate by selecting the " $ " from the drop-down menu or selecting " % " for a percentage-based discount.

Select " Multiple " if you would like to set up multiple cancellation fees. Click the " Add Fee " button to set the time frame, provider payment, and fee in the resulting pop-up.

If you would like to pay some or all of the cancelation fee to the provider, click the red Disabled button to switch it to Enabled , then set the payment rate per cancelation.

Override the Service Category Settings
Cancelation fees can also be customized for each service category in your booking form. If you would like your General Settings to override any cancelation fees you have already set up, check the box next to: (Override the Service Category Settings)

Should the system stop automatically adding new bookings to the end of the schedule if a recurring service is canceled midway?
If you select " Yes" if the system should NOT continue to add bookings to the end of a recurring service once a service is canceled midway through. This assumes the customer wants a limited number of recurring bookings with the service set to end at a specified date.
If you select "No " if the system should continue to add bookings to the end of a recurring service even if a service is canceled midway through. This assumes the customer only wanted to cancel one or several appointments in the middle of the service and that the system should continue to book recurring bookings after the canceled dates/.

When will your customers be charged a cancellation fee?
If you are going to charge cancelation fees, you can use this to set when the cancelation fee will be charged. You can choose between two options:
Ģ If the customer cancels after a specific time the day before the job.
? For example, if you set the boxes to be "05:00" and "PM", customers will be charged the fee if they cancel any time after 5:01 PM the day before the booking.
Ģ If the customer cancels less than a specific amount of hours before the job starts.
? For example, you can select the number of hours up to 120 , meaning the customer will be charged a fee if they cancel less than 5 days before the booking.
? If you would like to charge a fee any time a customer cancels at all, you can select " 00 ".

Exclude same day bookings
Check this box if you would not like to charge a cancelation fee if a booking is added to the schedule today and then rescheduled.

Would you like to set up reasons for why the booking is being canceled?
When you, your staff, or your customer cancels an appointment, you can ask them to select the reason for the cancelation.
To enable this feature, select "Yes" under "Would you like to set up reasons for why the booking is being canceled?"
Below, click the blue "Manage Reasons " link to view or modify the list of cancelation reasons.

The system will come with a list of default reasons.
Click the blue "Add New " button to add a new reason to the list. You can customize which reasons will display using the options on the Add/Edit page .

Reason Title Type the reason into the box below where it says " Reason title ". Please use alphanumeric digits only. Symbols and special characters cannot be used.

Frequency
Ģ Check the box next to One Time if you would like the reason to display when a one-time booking is canceled.
Ģ Check the box next to Recurring if you would like the reason to display when a recurring service is canceled.

Applicable On
Ģ Check " Cancel all recurring appointments " if you would like the reason to display when a customer cancels an entire recurring service.
Ģ Check " Cancel single appointment " if you want the reason to show when a single appointment is canceled.
Ģ Check " Exclude cancelation fee " if you do not want to charge the customer a cancelation fee when they select this reason.
Ģ Check " Exclude cancelation after 1st appointment fee " to exclude charging additional fees if a customer cancels a recurring service after having only on booking.
? This option only applies if you give recurring customers a discount based on their frequency.
? If the customer cancels after having just one appointment, the system will charge them any difference between the one-time and discounted rate.

To edit an existing reason, click " Options ", " Edit".
To reorder the list, click and drag the reason to a new position and then click the orange "Update Priority" button.
If you uncheck theboxnext to the reason's title, it will be hidden from the list.
To delete a reason, click "Options ", " Delete".
Once you are done modifying your list of cancelation reasons, click the green "Save " button at the bottom of the pop-up window.

Would you like it to be optional to give a reason with the cancellation?
Ģ Select " Yes " to make selecting the cancelation reason optional.
Ģ Select " No " to require at least one cancelation reason to be selected in order to cancel the service.

Would you like to have a comment box in the cancellation section?
Ģ Select " Yes " to include a comment box to collect feedback when a booking is canceled.
Ģ Select " No" to hide the comment box.
If you have selected "Yes ", can you decide if the comment box will be included when a One Time and/or Recurring service is canceled

Would you like it to be optional to leave a comment with the cancellation?
Ģ Select " Yes " to make leaving a comment optional.
Ģ Select " No" to require a comment before they can cancel.
If you have selected "Yes ", can you decide if the comment box will be included when a One Time and/or Recurring service is canceled

Please select which services you would like to display the cancellation reasons in the pop-up
This section will list every industry and service category in your account. Check the box next to the service's name to display cancelation reasons when a booking in this category is canceled.
To select all service categories in your industry, check the box that says "All ".

Will the reasons in the pop-up be displayed for the admin only or customers as well?
Select whether you would like the cancelation reasons pop up to be displayed for only admin and staff , or for both customers and admin/staff.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



How to set up automatic credit card holds/preauthorizations
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-credit-card-hold-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

How to set up automatic credit card holds/preauthorizations
Learn how to set up card preauthorizations, or card "holds", to secure payments made with credit cards.

Last updated on 16 Oct, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you:

Ģ Set up credit card holds for your bookings
Ģ Enable your card hold notifications
Ģ Understand your options for rescheduling a booking when the card hold has failed

Put Credit Card on Hold
The " Put Credit Card on Hold " section under your Store Options contains the settings for placing a pre-authorization or card " hold " on payments made with credit cards. If you allow your customers to book with credit cards and you are worried about payments failing, you can enable the card hold settings to make ensure the payment is secured before the booking takes place.

To manage your credit card hold settings, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the " Put Credit Card on Hold " section.

Would you like to place a hold on the customer's card payment to ensure funds?

Ģ Select " Yes " to enable pre-authorization of payments for your bookings.
Ģ Select " No " to disable the card hold feature.

Which of your payment charging methods would you like this to be enabled for?

If you answered " Yes " to the previous question, select which charging methods you'd like the hold to be enabled for:

Ģ Manual Charging - Card holds will only be applied to bookings that are charged manually.
Ģ Automatic Charging - Card holds will only be applied to bookings that are charged automatically.
Ģ Both - Card holds will be used for bookings that will be manually and automatically charged.

Which of the booking types would you like this enabled for?

If you selected " Manual Charging " or " Both " for the previous question, decide which booking types you would like to have a charge pre-authorization.

Ģ New Booking - The hold is only applied when a new booking is added to the system.
Ģ Reschedule booking - The hold is only applied upon rescheduling an existing booking in the system.
Ģ Both - Card holds will be placed whenever a new booking comes in and when bookings are rescheduled.

Do you want to allow the booking addition when a card hold fails?

This option allows you to choose whether to allow booking addition when a card hold fails.

Ģ Select " Yes " to add new bookings even if card holds fail.
Ģ Select " No " to add new bookings only if the card holds succeed.

NOTE : This option only works in case of a new booking.

When would you like to place the booking amount on hold?

Decide when you would like the hold to take place.

Ģ The day of the booking at [##:## AM/PM] - The pre-authorization will occur the day of the booking at a set time.

? For example, let's say the hold time is set to "6:00 AM" the day of the booking.  There are services booked for 8 AM, 9 AM, and 1 PM. When the clock hits 6:00 AM, the card holds will be placed on all the bookings regardless of their start time.
Ģ [#] day(s) before the booking date - The pre-authorization will occur a set number of days before the booking.

? For example, let's say the hold time is set to 2 days before the booking date.  If a job is scheduled for 10 AM on March 5, the pre-authorization will occur at 10 AM on March 3.

What would you like to happen if the hold for the booking amount fails?

If you selected " Automatic Charging " or " Both " for the previous question, decide what you would like to happen if the card hold fails.

Ģ Cancel the booking immediately and notify the customer, provider, and myself -

? To ensure that you are notified about booking cancelations due to card hold failure, make sure you have enabled the " Booking canceled due to card hold failure " notifications.

Ģ These can be enabled for email and/or SMS by going to Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Admin > Canceled Booking.
? To ensure that your customers are notified about booking cancelations due to card hold failure, make sure you have enabled the " Booking canceled due to card hold failure " notifications.

Ģ These can be enabled for email and/or SMS by going to Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Customer > Canceled Booking.
? To ensure that your providers are notified about booking cancelations, make sure you have enabled the " Booking canceled " notifications.

Ģ These can be enabled for email and/or SMS by going to Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Customer > Canceled Booking
Ģ Notify the customer and myself and cancel the booking 24 hours before it is scheduled to be started - If you have set up pre-authorizations to take place a fixed number of days before the booking, you can notify the customer and yourself at the time of the failed transaction but wait to cancel the booking until 24 hours before.

? The booking will not be canceled as long as the hold is successful before you reach 24 hours before the start time.
Ģ Leave the booking and notify me - You will receive a notification that the card hold failed and no further action will be taken by the system. This means the customer will NOT be notified of the card hold failure.

Please note : We are working on a fourth option to notify the admin AND the customer but leave the booking. We will send out an announcement once this update has been released.

Remember to Save!

If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.

Card Hold Notifications
There are several email templates to alert the admin and customers if/when a card hold fails.  For the system to send them out automatically, make sure they have been enabled in your Notifications section.

To enable them, go to:

Settings > Notifications > Emails/SMS > Admin/Customer > Card Declined

If the button next to the template reads " Disabled ", click it to switch it to "Enabled". This will turn on the notification.

You can also enable the notification for " Booking modified but card hold failed " if you or your customers would like to be notified if the card hold fails due to a change in the booking price.

Rescheduling a Booking with a Card Hold Failure
If you are going to reschedule a booking and your payment processor fails to hold the card, a pop-up will appear in BookingKoala with several options.

Ģ Switch to cash/check and update the booking : In this case, the booking will be updated and switched to the " Cash/Check " payment method. Please note, you will need to select a card on file before you can charge the booking via credit or debit card.
Ģ Cancel booking : The booking will be canceled in the system. The admin or the customer can resume this booking by adding a valid credit card in the Payment Method section at the bottom of the booking form or in the customer's billing section under their Profile .
Ģ Close and try another card : This will close the popup and nothing will be updated in the booking. You can then make changes to the card details, try a different card, or select " Cash/Check " manually.



Enable/disable customers from editing quotes
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-quote-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

Enable/disable customers from editing quotes
Learn how to allow or block customers from editing the quotes you have sent them.

Last updated on 17 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable quote modification for customers

Quote Settings
This setting pertains to whenever you send a customer a quote from inside a booking form.

To manage your Quote settings, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the " Quote " section.

Do you want to allow customers to modify their quote?
Select " Yes " to allow customers to make modifications to the booking form selections in their quote. This allows the customer to make changes to any options selected in the booking.

Select " No " if you do not want to allow customers to make changes. This means they must book the service exactly how it was entered in the quote.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Enable/disable notes for booking price and time adjustments
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-price-time-adjustment-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

Enable/disable notes for booking price and time adjustments
Learn how to enable notes for the price and time adjustment options in the booking form.

Last updated on 14 Mar, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable the price and time adjustment note boxes in the booking form

Price & Time Adjustment Settings
To manage your Price & Time Adjustment settings, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the " Time & Price Adjustment " section.

Would you like to enable a note section for price adjustments on your bookings?
Ģ Select " Yes " to include a note box when the price adjustment option is being used in a booking. This note can only be seen by the admin and staff members.
Ģ Select " No " to hide the note section for this option.

Would you like to enable a note section for time adjustments on your bookings?
Ģ Select " Yes " to include a note box when the time adjustment option is being used in a booking. This note can only be seen by the admin and staff members.
Ģ Select " No " to hide the note section for this option.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Edit the message customers and providers see when they are blocked or deactivated
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-access-settings-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

Edit the message customers and providers see when they are blocked or deactivated
Learn how to modify the messages displayed when a deactivated/blocked customer or provider sees when they try to log in.

Last updated on 14 Mar, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Change the access messages that are displayed when a provider or customer has been blocked from accessing their account

Access Settings
The Access Settings section under your General Store Options controls what your customers and providers see when they are blocked or deactivated.

Providers can be blocked from accessing their account temporarily or deactivated by clicking on the provider's name and going to their dashboard. Click the grey "Deactivate" button or the yellow "Block Access" button at the top right corner of their profile.

Customers can be blocked from accessing their account temporarily or deactivated by clicking on the customer's name and going to their dashboard. Click the grey "Deactivate" button or the yellow "Block Access" button at the top right corner of their profile.

When the customer or provider goes to log in, a red notification will appear at the top center of the page, displaying the message in your settings.

To change these messages, go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Access Settings" section.

Customer Message
The default message for blocked or deactivated customers is, "We apologize for the inconvenience. Please contact our office if you have any questions." If you would like to change this, type your new message into the box below.

Provider Message
The default message for blocked or deactivated providers is, "We apologize for the inconvenience. Please contact our office if you have any questions." If you would like to change this, type your new message into the box below.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



How to enable/disable "Calendar View" and customize how the schedule looks
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-calendar-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

How to enable/disable "Calendar View" and customize how the schedule looks
Learn how to enable or disable the calendar view and customize your calendar view preferences.

Last updated on 14 Mar, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable or disable calendar view
Ģ Set your default booking view
Ģ Set the default time frame in the calendar view
Ģ Set the default for where provider names display in the calendar view
Ģ Select how customer names display in the month view
Ģ Set how bookings for the same day and time will display
Ģ Choose how to display unavailable times for providers

Calendar Settings
To manage your general Calendar Settings, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Calendar Settings" section.

These settings pertain to using the calendar view when looking at bookings in the system.

As mentioned above, the calendar view button can be found in any section where bookings are listed, including:
Ģ Today's Bookings
Ģ Upcoming Bookings
Ģ Job History
Ģ Unassigned Bookings
Ģ Providers' dashboards
Ģ Customers' dashboards

Would you like to disable the calendar view?
If you do not want to use the calendar view at all, you can remove the option from the system by selecting "Yes" to this question.

If you answer "No", proceed by making selections for the following questions:

Would you like your bookings to appear in the calendar view or listing view by default?
Ģ Select "Calendar view" to set your default view for all sections to this.
Ģ Select "Listing view" instead if you prefer to see bookings in a list.

You will still be able to switch between viewing modes at any time.

How would you like to set up the calendar view by default?
Decide which time frame you would like the calendar view to display by default.

Ģ "Month" view will show every day of the current month.
Ģ "Week" view will show every day of the current week.
Ģ "Day" view will show the current date.

You will still be able to switch between month-, week-, and day-view in the booking sections.

Where should the providers show on your calendar by default?
Decide how you would like your providers to be displayed in calendar view.

Ģ Select "Top" to place the provider's names at the top of the calendar view. This corresponds with the "Vertical" view of the job calendar.
Ģ Select "Timelines/Horizontal" to place the provider names on the left side of the calendar. This corresponds with the "Horizontal" view of the calendar.
Ģ Select "Side" to display the provider names in a bar on the right side of the calendar. This corresponds with the "Sidebar" view of the calendar.
Ģ You can hide the provider sidebar at any time by clicking the "people" icon at the top of the page, or the "x" in the top right corner of the sidebar.

Would you like to show customer names in the month view or the dots for bookings?
Ģ Choose "Names" to see the customer's full name in a small box on the monthly calendar view.
Ģ Choose "Dots" to see dots that represent each booking on the monthly calendar view.
? You can view the booking's details by hovering over a dot or clicking it with your curser.

How do you want to show multiple bookings on a single date?
Ģ "Side by side" prioritizes the customer details by displaying two bookings next to each other when they start at the same time.
Ģ "Overlapped" prioritizes how much space is being taken up in a column by overlapping shorter appointments on top of longer appointments starting at the same time.

Would you like to hide the provider's non-working hours (grey area)?
Ģ Select "Yes" to hide the provider's non-work hours completely from the calendar view.
Ģ Select "No" to show the provider's non-working hours as "greyed out".

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Query parameters & preselected fields on the booking form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/pre-select-fields-on-the-booking-form

Query parameters & preselected fields on the booking form
Learn how to preselect value, like frequencies, service categories, extras, and pricing parameters on the forms passed through URLs as "query parameters".

Last updated on 13 Mar, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are query parameters
Ģ How to create a custom URL with preselected fields
Ģ Which query parameters are available in BookingKoala
Ģ How to locate field IDs to build your URL

What are query parameters?
Query parameters are any values passed in an URL in "key/value pair format". This means that the link contains a label, an "equal sign" (=), and the value of the parameter you want to be preselected.

For example: https://www.bookingkoala.com/?service_id=1&frequency_id=1&email=testemail@example.com

Here, "service_id", "frequency_id" and "email" are query parameters with their associated values, "=1", "=1", and "=testemail@exmaple.com".

The associated values correspond which each option you have selected in the booking form in the case of the service and frequency IDs, while the email is placed in the email box in the booking form.

You can use this feature to build custom links with pre-selected fields to send to your customers so they can quickly book a service with those parameters already selected. Query parameters can also be used to direct a client to your booking form from a third-party form or widget.

BookingKoala Query Parameters
The following is the complete list of fields that can be passed to form using URL/query parameters and examples of values.

Ģ Industry: industry_id=1
Ģ Form number: form_id=1
Ģ Location: location=2
Ģ First Name: f_name=John
Ģ Last Name: l_name=Doe
Ģ Email Address: email=johndoe@example.com
Ģ Phone Number: phone=1122334455
Ģ Service Category: service_id=1
Ģ Frequency: frequency_id=1
Ģ Zip/Postal Code: zipcode=10001
Ģ Minutes: minutes=180
Ģ Coupon Code: coupon=OFF20
Ģ Pricing Parameters (for Form 1): pricing_parameter[10]=15
Ģ Pricing Parameters (for Form 4): area_parameter[10]=2000
Ģ Extras: extras[12]=2
Ģ Service Date: date=2018-12-13

Locating the Field IDs
Some of these parameters can be populated by yourself.

Ģ Industry: Enter the industry's number (the first industry you added will be 1, the second will be 2, etc.)
? For example, your third industry would be industry_id=3
Ģ Form number: Enter the form's number.
? For example, "Form 1" would be: form_id=1
Ģ Location: Enter the location's number (the first location in your location list will be 1, the second will be 2, etc.)
? For example, the fourth location would be: location=4
Ģ First Name: Enter the customer's first name.
? For example, if a customer's first name is "Rebecca", you would enter f_name=Rebecca
Ģ Last Name: Enter the customer's last name.
? For example, if a customer's last name is "Dawson", you would enter l_name=Dawson
Ģ Email Address: Enter the customer's email address.
? For example, if a client's email is "johndoe@example.com", you would enter email=johndoe@example.com
Ģ Phone Number: Enter the customer's phone number.
? For example, the phone number "(203) 555-1234" would be phone=2035551234
Ģ Zip/Postal Code: Enter the customer's zip/postal code.
? For example, the zipcode "60626" would be zipcode=60626
Ģ Minutes: Enter the number of minutes the appointment will take (if hourly).
? For example, 1 hour and 30 minutes would be minutes=90
Ģ Coupon Code: Enter the coupon code (not the coupon name).
? For example, if the actual coupon code is "FB15", you would enter coupon=FB15
Ģ Pricing Parameters (for Form 4): Enter the total number of units for your variable.
? For example, if your variable is "Square Feet", "2000 square feet would be: area_parameter[10]=2000
Ģ Service Date: Enter the service date in YEAR-MONTH-DATE format.
? For example, if the date is March 1, 2022, you would enter date=2022-03-01

Other parameters can be found inside your BookingKoala Account by going to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] >

Ģ Service Category: Click on the "Service Category" tab and then click on the ID in the "ID" column to copy it.
? To preselect the "Flat Rate Service" category, you would type: service_id=66
? "66" is the ID of this frequency
Ģ Frequency: Click on the "Frequency" tab and then click on the ID in the "ID" column to copy it.
? To preselect the "As Needed" frequency, you would type: frequency_id=1
? "1" is the ID of this frequency
Ģ Pricing Parameters (for Form 1):
? To set up query parameters for pricing parameters, there are two different IDs that you will need to collect, the variable category id and the pricing parameter ID.
Ģ Click on the orange "Manage Variables" button at the top right corner of the Pricing Parameter section and copy the ID next to the parameter's category.
Ģ Next, go back to the Pricing Parameter second and then click on the ID in the parameter's "ID" column to copy it.
? Using these cases as an example, you would type pricing_parameter[1]=3 to preselect "1 bedroom" on the booking form.
Ģ "1" is the variable category's ID (bedrooms)
Ģ "3" is the specific variable (1 bedroom).
Ģ Extras: Click on the "Extras" tab and then click on the ID in the "ID" column to copy it.
? To preselect the "Junk Removal" extra, you would type: extras[88]=1
? "88" is the extra's ID, and "1" is the quantity of this extra

If you were to compile a URL with some of the preselected values in this example, it would look like this: https://demo2.bookingkoala.com/?industry_id=1&frequency_id=1&pricing_parameter[1]=3&extras[12]=1&coupon=FB15

Create A Custom URL with Preselected Values
463 Type in the full domain beginning with "https://".
464 Type "?"
465 Enter your first query parameter, for example, "date="
466 Enter the parameter's value or ID, for example, "2022-10-23"
467 Type "&" before entering another query parameter.
468 Repeat steps 4 and 5 until your URL is complete, then finish on step 4 with your final parameter.

https://yourbusiness.com/?date=2022-10-23&minutes=60



Setting up sales tax
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-sales-tax

Setting up sales tax
Learn how to set up sales tax for your services using flat tax.

Last updated on 09 Aug, 2024

Ģ Enable sales tax
Ģ Set up flat-rate taxes for your services
Ģ Change your sales tax label
Ģ Charge tax on the service fee

Enable Sales Tax
If your local government requires sales tax for your services, you can set up your BookingKoala account to charge tax on top of their service total.

There are two different options when it comes to setting up your sales tax.

469 If you know your local tax rate and it will not change based on the services your customer purchases, you can set up flat-rate tax for each of your locations.
470 If your local taxes are complicated or change based on services and locale, you can set up and connect a third-party app called Taxify to calculate your sales tax. Click here to learn how to link Taxify to your BookingKoala account.

To begin, go to:

Settings > General > Taxes

Click on the red " Disabled " button to change it to " Enabled ".

Flat-Rate Sales Tax
If you'd like to enter a flat-rate tax for your locations, select " Flat " under " Do you want to use Taxify or flat tax? "

Next, decide whether you want to set up different taxes per location .

Ģ Select " No " to have one tax rate for all of your locations.  

Ģ Enter the tax percentage in the box below, and then click the blue " Save " button.
Ģ Select " Yes " to enable different sales tax per each location you service.

Click the blue " Save " button to proceed. A " Location Taxes " section will be added below.

Select a location from the first drop-down menu, and then enter the tax percentage into the second box.  Lastly, click the blue " Save " button to add sales tax for that location.

Once you click " Save ", the location and the corresponding tax amount will be added below.

If you'd like to edit or delete the tax for any added locations, click " Options " and " Edit " or " Delete ".

Change the Tax Label
To change what the "sales tax" label says in your account, go to:

Settings > General > Taxes

Scroll down to the "Customize Tax Label" section and enter the new term into the box below.

Then press the blue "Save" button.

Charge Sales Tax on the Service Fee
If you also charge service fees based on your locations, you can decide whether or not you would like those fees to be tax-exempt or not. This option is controlled under your Form Settings .

To charge sales tax on your service fee, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Next, click " Options ", and then " Edit " next to the form you'd like to update.

Scroll down until you see the question, " Would you like to make the service fee taxable? " and select " Yes ".

Please note : If you have existing bookings in the system already, this change will only impact new bookings after the setting has been saved.

Then, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page to update your form.  Repeat these steps for every form you'd like to charge sales tax on the service fee.

Tax-Exempt Locations
If you have tax-exempt locations, you can update your location settings to reflect them as such.  To open your locations, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > 1. Locations

Next, select Options then Edit to open the location in which you would like to exempt taxes.

Then, scroll down to the bottom of the Details tab and select " Yes " for the question, " Do you wish to exempt sales tax for this location? "

Then, click the blue " Next " buttons until you reach " Update ". Click " Update " to save your changes.



Flushing the test data
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/flushing-the-test-data

Flushing the test data
Learn the purpose of test data in your BookingKoala account and how to remove it.

Last updated on 01 Sept, 2022

In this article, you will learn more about:
Ģ What is test data
Ģ How to flush test data from your account

What is test data?
When you first go inside your BookingKoala dashboard, you will see that it is pre-loaded with fake test data. This is to show you what the system looks like when it's been set up with store options, customers, providers, bookings, and more.

When you are ready to create real bookings, schedule customers, and add providers, you'll need to remove the test data from the system. Specifically, this means removing the fake customer, the fake provider and fake team, the test location, all the fake job history, all the fake upcoming bookings, and all the fake charges.

It is especially important to flush the test data before incorporating your payment processor, as any existing bookings with payment options may affect the accuracy of your revenue and earnings reports.

Flushing the test data will NOT affect any of the store settings that you may have changed, new industries you've added, and form components like frequencies, service categories, pricing under items/add-ons/packages/pricing parameters/variables, and extras.

Flushing Your Test Data
Once you have gotten a feel for the dashboard, you can flush the test data out of the system. To begin, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Admin Tab

At the very bottom of the page, click the red Flush Test Data button . A pop-up box will appear, confirming you would like to delete the data. Select Yes to continue.

If the " Flush Test Data " button or section is missing, the data has already been deleted and you are ready to start adding real customers, providers, and bookings.



Setting up your invoice settings in "Store Options"
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-your-invoice-settings-in-store-options

Setting up your invoice settings in "Store Options"
Learn how to set up your invoice settings in the General Store Options tab.

Last updated on 03 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How to set up your invoice store option settings

Invoice Settings
There is just one setting in this section: " What should happen if you have a card hold with invoiced bookings? Do you prefer to release the card hold and perform a single charge of the invoice or capture the card hold and perform other charges separately? "

Ģ Select " Release " to release the card hold for the system to perform a single charge of the invoice.
Ģ Select " Capture " to capture the card hold in one transaction and perform any other additional charges in a separate transaction.

Remember to Save!

If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Switching payment processors
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/switching-payment-processors

Switching payment processors
Learn about the recommended steps on how to change from one payment processor to another in your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 05 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to switch payment processors

Switching Your Payment Processor
Step 1: Migrate Your Customer Card Details

First, it is important to understand that your existing customer's cards need to be added again to your new payment processor account, as BookingKoala does not store cards on our platform.

You will first need to move your customer cards from your current payment processor account to your new payment processor account before you can proceed with switching.

Ģ We recommend contacting customer support for both your current and new payment processors to get assistance with migrating the customer's card details from the current account to the new account.
Ģ Click the links below to locate the support centers for each of our integrated payment processors.
? Stripe Support
? Square Support
? Braintree by PayPal Support
? Authorize.net Support

Step 2:

Go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General tab > Payment section

and ensure that you have selected the " No " option for the question " When a booking is pre-charged with a card, then updated to cash/check, should we refund the charge? ".

This is to make sure that any precharged card transactions are not automatically refunded when you switch your bookings from an existing credit card to cash/check.

Step 3: Update Active Bookings to Cash/Check

The next step is to change all of your active bookings with existing cards to "cash/check".

As they are already associated with the old payment processor's keys, the system will not allow the addition of new payment processor keys until there are no bookings left with the existing keys.

For this, please check for the active bookings with existing card(s) in the " List View " at the following places:

471 Bookings > Today's Booking
472 Bookings > Upcoming Bookings
473 Bookings > Unassigned Bookings
474 Bookings > Booking Charges > Pending Charges
475 Bookings > Booking Charges > Declined
476 Bookings > Booking Charges > Card Hold(s) / Decline(s) > Card Holds
477 Bookings > Booking Charges > Card Hold(s) / Decline(s) > Card Declined

Click the pencil icon to edit the booking and scroll down to the bottom of the page to the Payment Information section. Select " Cash/Check " (or whatever you have named this option) as the payment method for the booking(s), then click the blue " Update Booking " button from the bottom or side menu.

You will also want to ensure that there are no pending provider payments connected to your original payment processor. To check for these, please go to:

Providers > Payments

Select the last 6 months or longer for the pay period to check for outstanding payments.

If there are outstanding provider payments, select " Options " then " Pay " (or " Cash / Check " if you are paying the provider outside of Bookingkoala).

Step 4: Connect Your New Payment Processor

Once you have switched all of your bookings to "cash/check", you are ready to integrate your new payment processor. Please follow the instructions linked below to set up and connect the new payment processor.
Ģ Stripe
Ģ Square
Ģ PayPal
Ģ Authorize.net

Step 5: Prepare and Share Your Client CSV File

Once the customer's card data is migrated from your original account into your new payment processor account, the customer will have a new ID. Export this information from your new payment processor and add it to a CSV file along with the client's other data like their first name , last name , address , email address , phone number , etc.

Next, share this file with us at support@bookingkoala.com and request that we map the data via the backend of your BookingKoala account. Please be sure you have fully completed steps 1-3 before emailing with your request.

Step 6: Update Your Bookings

Update the bookings with your customer's card details. You can do this by going to:

478 Bookings > Today's Booking
479 Bookings > Upcoming Bookings
480 Bookings > Unassigned Bookings
481 Bookings > Booking Charges > Pending Charges
482 Bookings > Booking Charges > Declined
483 Bookings > Booking Charges > Card Hold(s) / Decline(s) > Card Holds
484 Bookings > Booking Charges > Card Hold(s) / Decline(s) > Card Declined

Click the pencil icon to edit the booking and scroll down to the bottom of the page to the Payment Information section. Select " Existing Credit Card ", then click the blue " Update Booking " button from the bottom or side menu.



Delete or consolidate locations
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/delete-or-consolidate-locations

Delete or consolidate locations
Learn how to delete or consolidate locations in your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 12 Nov, 2024

In this article, you will learn:
Ģ How to consolidate locations
Ģ How to delete a location

Consolidate Locations
Whether you are restructuring your business locations/service areas or looking to downgrade your subscription to the Starter Plan, you can consolidate your locations into one primary location. This can be done a few different ways depending on the type of locations you have set up. To learn more about each setting up each kind of location, click here.

Consolidating Name-Based Locations

To consolidate name-based locations, the admin will need to come up with a name that encompasses their entire location/service area and rename one of their locations to that name.

Ģ For example, if you service the cities of Dallas, Austin, San Antonio, and Houston, you could consider renaming your one central location as "Texas".
Ģ If you service multiple locations that do not have a clear grouping, you could include the name of each location separated by commas like "Illinois, Texas, and Massachusetts" for your location name.

Next, you will need to create any current bookings as new bookings under your one central location. This step is necessary as any active bookings in your other locations will eventually need to be deleted. Once you have created all of your bookings under a single location, you are ready to proceed with deleting the other location(s).

Consolidating Zip Code-Based Locations

Consolidating zipcode-based locations will require the admin to take the additional step of moving their zip/postcodes from all locations to one central location. To do this, you need to remove the zip codes from your other locations and add them to your soon-to-be single location. Once this is complete, you are ready to proceed with deleting the other location(s).

Consolidating Merchant Locations

Currently, there is no way to list multiple addresses for a single merchant location. This means that the admin must pick one address to list as the primary merchant location per BookingKoala account.

Delete a Location
If you do not plan on using a location any longer, you can go to the "Locations" section for each form and industry to delete it. Please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Locations

Click on the "Options" button under the Actions column and select "Delete".

A pop-up will ask if you are certain you would like to delete this location. This will permanently remove all data associated with that location from your account. If you are certain you are ready to proceed, click "Yes" to proceed.

Please note that all active bookings and pending booking invitations (unassigned bookings) must be canceled or rescheduled before the system will allow you to delete the location.

A green system notification will confirm once the location has been deleted successfully.

Repeat these steps for each form and industry that includes the location(s) you would like deleted, as deleting a location from one form or industry does not automatically delete it from all forms and industries.



Hide job length from customers or providers
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/hide-job-length-from-customers-or-providers

Hide job length from customers or providers
Learn how to hide the estimated job length from your customers, providers, or even the admin/staff.

Last updated on 13 Nov, 2024

In this article, you will learn more about:
Ģ How to hide job length via the service category
Ģ How to hide job length via the Website & Theme Builder

Hide Job Length: Editing Your Service Categories
There are two ways to hide the job length from your customers or providers. The first is in your service categories. Service categories allow you to show or hide the estimated job length from the customers and providers, giving you the option to customize this per service type. To edit your service categories, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Categories

Under the Action column, click Options, then Edit.

Scroll down the page until you reach where it says "Display service length on customer end". There are three possible options for this setting:
485 Customer frontend, backend, & admin - New customers, returning customers, and admin/staff will be able to see the service length
486 Customer backend & admin - Only returning customers and admin/staff will be able to see service length
487 Admin only - Only the admin and staff can see the estimated service length

Just below this setting, you will see the option "Display service length on provider end". If you select Yes, providers will be able to see the estimated service length for this service category. If you select No, the service length as well as the service length label will be hidden.

If you make any changes, be sure to click the "Next" button until you reach the final page, then click "Save" to update your service category.

Hide Job Length: Updating the Website & Theme Builder
The other way to hide the job length from your customers and providers is to update the job length visibility settings via the Website & Theme Builder. The Website & Theme Builder controls many visual aspects of your booking form, including the ability to show or hide job length from providers, customers, and admin/staff. To see these options, go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the "Customize Theme" button.

Next, click on the top center Page menu and navigate to the Book Now page (or whatever you have named your booking form).

Once you are on your booking form page, scroll down and locate the Booking Summary (normally along the right side of the page or at the bottom beneath the form for the mobile version). Click on the labels within the booking summary to reveal the Edit and Rearrange buttons. Click "Edit".

Scroll down the left side menu that appears until you see the "Length" or "Job Length" label. Click on the "Control visibility" link to view the Control Visibility popup.

Under the text "Which user(s) should see this section?", uncheck the box(es) next to any user(s) you do not want to see the estimated job length. Please note the following:
Ģ This setting controls whether the job length appears in the booking form, provider booking details, and notifications sections.
Ģ This setting works in juxtaposition with the option located in the service category settings.
Ģ This setting only to non-hourly bookings. By nature, hourly bookings will always display the job length to all users.

Once you have made your selections, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom corner of the pop-up. To apply these changes right away, please click the blue "Save & Publish" button in the top right corner of the Website & Themes Builder.

Upon making this update, the selected users will be able to see the estimated job length, while the unselected users will not.



6. Design forms and website
Articles in this collection (46):

488 Connect a custom domain
489 Website builder and themes overview
490 Themes vs forms
491 Customize the look of your website
492 Rearrange sections in the booking form
493 Make the booking summary scroll
494 Change my favicon
495 Switch, disable, & delete a page from your site
496 Add a new page in your website builder
497 Embed forms on your existing website
498 Edit the header and footer menus
499 Add a page to my header/footer menu
500 Add a pop-up
501 Add a thank you page
502 Edit the privacy policy & terms of service pop-ups
503 Remove "Powered by BookingKoala" branding
504 Disable gift cards and referrals
505 Enable/disable the "How It Works" section
506 How to reindex your website
507 Disable the header and footer menus
508 Enable/disable website password protection
509 Edit your website's SEO metadata
510 How to fix the "website is not secure"/"connection is not private" error
511 Buy a BookingKoala domain
512 Terms & conditions checkbox
513 Change the layout of the "Customer Details" and address section
514 Edit the payment details pages
515 Edit the customer dashboard pages
516 Edit the customer invoice payment page
517 Edit the customer invoice thank you page
518 Set up the default invoice template
519 Edit the reauth card page
520 Edit the customer dashboard page
521 Edit the customer personal details page
522 Edit the customer info and billing page
523 Edit the customer my drive page
524 Edit the customer notifications page
525 Edit the customer gift cards page
526 Edit the customer add payment page
527 Edit the booking form booking summary
528 Edit the "Popular Questions"/FAQs section
529 Edit the booking form text and sections
530 Add a logo
531 Rename "cash/check" or "credit/debit" on the booking form
532 Add testimonials to your site
533 Migrate custom domain to new IP



Connect a custom domain
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-custom-domains

Connect a custom domain
Learn how to connect a custom domain to your BookingKoala account/website.

Last updated on 11 Apr, 2025

In this article, you will learn more about:
Ģ Reasons why to connect a custom domain
Ģ How to connect an existing custom domain

Why would I connect a custom domain?
There are many reasons why you may want to change the domain associated with your BookingKoala account and website. After all, your BookingKoala account primary domain is used for your BookingKoala website (including customer, staff, admin, and provider dashboards) and any links contained in your email and SMS notifications.

Ģ If you are using the BookingKoala website, you may not want customers to see BookingKoala branding including the ".bookingkoala" part of your default account domain.
Ģ If you have a pre-existing website with embedded BookingKoala forms, you may want to create and connect a domain to hide/"mask" your default BookingKoala subdomain so users won't see "yourstorename.bookingkoala.com" when they log into their dashboard (hosted by BookingKoala) from your site (hosted elsewhere).  
Ģ Or, if your business is rebranding, you may have purchased a new domain to reflect the new services or industries you are incorporating.

Whatever the case may be, you can connect and manage one or more custom domains for your BookingKoala account using the "Change My Domain" option from the Design Forms & Website section. 

Important note: Please do NOT use the same domain for your BookingKoala account if you already have an existing website associated with that domain.  Websites can only have one primary domain, so adding the same domain to another site can result in issues with link routing, authenticating your site, and more.  If you are already using your primary domain for your existing website, you can create a subdomain instead and connect this to your BookingKoala account (discussed later in this article).

Connect an Existing Domain or subdomain
If you already own a domain that is hosted outside of Bookingkoala or have created a subdomain like booking.yourbusinessname.com, you can connect it to your BookingKoala account. If you do not own a custom domain yet and would like to purchase one through BookingKoala, click here.  

Prepare domain to connect :
Make changes in the domain's DNS settings and point the domain to BookingKoala server IP using A records as guided below

534 Login to your domain's registrar account.
535 Locate and open the domain's DNS settings page to edit them.  You may see a section called "Advanced DNS" or "Manage DNS settings".  
536 Make sure to add following two IPs in the A record for the domain or subdomain 
? 162.159.141.169
? 172.66.1.165
Repeat following steps to add both IP addresses in A records.
537 Record Type:
? Enter or select "A" or "A record"
538 Name:
? For primary domains: Enter the @ symbol or leave the section blank if it says to leave the box empty to set up records for the primary domain. 
? For other subdomains: Enter the subdomain's name/extension here.
Ģ For example, you would enter the word "bookings" here to create a subdomain called "bookings.yourbusinessname.com".

539 Data/IP Address:
? Add the IP address
540 TTL: 
? If you see this option when setting up the A record,  you use the host's default selection such as "Automatic", "3600", or "60 minutes".

541 Click whichever option is offered to "Add", "Update", or "Save" your new/edited A record.
542 (this step is applicable only if you are connecting the main domain but not the subdomain)
Once you have added the A records for the domain, make sure all other A records are removed.
543 Next, you will need to add CNAME for the www subdomain as shown in the below example, make sure that value for CNAME contains your domain only. For example, if your domain is mydomain.com then the value should be mydomain.com.

Please refer to the link below on how to edit the DNS records for some of the most common domain registrars used by our clients.  
Ģ GoDaddy.com
Ģ Domain.com
Ģ Namecheap.com
Ģ Bluehost.com
Ģ Wix.com
Ģ Register.com
Ģ Domains.Google
Ģ Shopify.com
Ģ Ionos.com
Ģ Hostgator.com

If you do not see your host listed here, we recommend logging into your account and searching their help section for topics like "How to Edit DNS Records" or "How to Add an A Record", or contacting a member of their customer support team.  You are always welcome to contact support@bookingkoala.com and we can help you locate instructions for your registrar.

Once these changes are done, your domain will be ready to connect with your BookingKoala account, please note that it might take upto few hours to update the A records and we recommend you checking them with this tool What's My DNS

Connect domain in the account
To begin, please go to:
Settings > Design Forms & Website > Change Your Domain

Your primary domain will be listed under the "Domain Name" column.  This is the BookingKoala subdomain that was generated when you first created your account. 

To connect an existing domain, click the blue "Connect Existing Domain" button in the top right corner of the page. 

This will bring you to a "Connect Existing Domain" page. Next, type your domain into the box at the top of the page and click the blue "Next" button.

Important: Do NOT include "www" in your domain name unless you are sure you have a subdomain that begins with this. 

After clicking "Next", it might take few minutes to connect the domain and install SSL for the domain and a confirmation message will be shown if the domain has been connected, please try loading the domain and check if it works.

Note : It might take few minute or hours to populate the A records and install the SSL, please reach out to our support in case the domain is connected but not working, our development team will check and guide you if any changes are required or complete the process.

Check Your Domain A Records
Adding or updating your domain's A records can take up to 48 hours depending on the TTL period you set.  To check if the process has been completed, you can use the What's My DNS tool to see where the IP address has been updated for your site.

544 After clicking on the link above, enter your domain name into the first box.
545 Then, select "A" for the record type.
546 Click "Search".

The IP addresses for each server location will be listed below. Once the records have populated, all (or the majority of) servers will display 162.159.141.169 and 172.66.1.165 as the IP addressess and will have a green checkmark next to it.  You can refresh this page to check for updates if the records have not been updated yet.

Verify the Domain
Once the A records have been added/updated, you'll be able to finish connecting your domain to your BookingKoala account.  

Back under the Connect Existing Domain page in BookingKoala, click the grey "Verify Connection" button to verify that the A records have been updated.

Give the system a few moments to verify the records. Please do not refresh the page while the screen is loading.  

If the connection was successful, you will now see your custom domain listed below the original domain with the status "Connected".  

If the system displays an error message that says "It is taking longer than expected to verify your domain", please contact our support team at support@bookingkoala.com and let us know so we can assist you.

Set the Primary Domain
Once your domain has been connected, you can set it as your primary domain. This is important and ensures your system email and SMS notifications contain the domain you want customers to see.  

To the right of the new domain, click "Options", then select "Make Primary".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to make this your primary domain. Click "Yes to continue.

Your new domain will now have the blue "Primary" label next to it.  

Your new domain has now been successfully connected to your account! To view what customers will see when they type in the domain, click the eye icon/"View" button.

Click the blue "Copy Link" button and then paste it into a private/incognito browser to see what your customers see when they navigate to your website.  

Troubleshoot: Domain Connection
To identify the possible cause of your domain connection issue and learn how to troubleshoot it on your own, click here.

Next Steps
Once you have set up and connected a new primary domain for your BookingKoala account and website, you may need to take a few additional steps to ensure your account will work as expected.

Update Your Form(s) Embed Codes
If you have an existing website that has BookingKoala forms embedded, you will need to update your forms' embed codes to the new domain instead of the original BookingKoala domain.  

547 Check that your newly connected custom domain has been set as the primary domain for your BookingKoala account.  If it is not, please follow the instructions in the previous section to complete this step.
548 Log out of your admin dashboard.
549 Type the new domain into the address bar in your web browser then add "/login" to the end.  
? For example, if your custom domain is "demo2llc.store", the login URL would be "demo2llc.store/login"
550 Enter your admin or staff credentials into the form and click "Log In".
551 Follow the rest of the steps from our guide on how to embed forms on an existing website.  As long as you have logged in from your new domain, the embed codes will also contain the new domain.

Secure & Authenticate Your Website
Once you connect a new domain, your website's SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) certificate may need to be updated to reflect the change.  A valid SSL certificate helps show customers that your website is authentic, secure, and owned by your business.

If your domain is no longer secure due to an expired or inaccurate SSL, you may see the following indicators:
Ģ A "Not Secure" tag is shown in the address box just before the domain name.
Ģ An exclamation point in the triangle icon by the address box or on the page.
Ģ The "https" part of the domain is crossed out or written in red
Ģ The page is blocked by a "Connection is not private" message

To fix this, please contact BookingKoala Support at support@bookingkoala.com so our developers can install/update the SSL certificate for your site.

When you email our team, please include the following details so we can help you more quickly:
Ģ Your BookingKoala account domain
? Ex: yourstorename.bookingkoala.com
Ģ Any custom domain(s) connected to your account 
? Ex: yourstorename.com, bookings.yourstorename.com, www.yourstorename.com

As soon as we receive your request, we will forward it to our developers for processing. Please allow up to 48 hours for the SSL certificate to be updated.  Our team will follow up with you to confirm as soon as the installation is complete.

Secure & Authenticate Your Emails
When you connect a new domain to your site, it may require you to update your site's DNS records to prevent your emails from going into spam as well as prevent email spoofing (when people use what appears to be your email address for illegitimate reasons).  These cases can be addressed by adding or updating your DNS's SPF and CNAME files. 

Add/Update an SPF Record
A Sender Policy Framework, or "SPF" for short, is an email validation standard designed to prevent email spoofing.  To set this up, you will publish a TXT record to the DNS configuration of your domain. This process varies depending on which web host you use.

Click the links below to view how to add an SPF record for some of the most common DNS/web hosts.
Ģ Amazon
Ģ GoDaddy
Ģ DreamHost
Ģ Cloudflare
Ģ HostGator
Ģ Namecheap
Ģ Names.co.uk
Ģ Wix

If your domain doesn't have an existing SPF record, you can publish a new TXT record in your DNS Records. 
Ģ For the record type, select TXT (SPF is a type of TXT record).
Ģ For the name, enter "@" or leave it blank (this depends on your domain host).
Ģ For the value, enter "v=spf1 include:amazonses.com ~all"
Ģ If you would like to authenticate emails from multiple domains, you can enter each domain separated by a space
? For example: "v=spf1 include:demo2llc.com include:amazonses.com ~all"

Once the record has been updated/added and saved, it can take up to 48 hours to update globally.  

Configure Your DKIM Settings
If you are using a domain email address, you can configure your DNS settings to help with verifying your sender email address.  This makes it less likely for the email to be marked as "spam".  If you would like to set up your DKIM settings, please follow the steps below.

552 Email us at support@bookingkoala.com to let us know if you would like to generate a CNAME file so you can configure your DKIM.
553 One of our developers will generate the records and send you a .CSV file containing CNAME records.
554 Download and open the .CSV file.
555 Login to your domain's hosting dashboard and locate the section where you can edit your DNS.
556 Copy the DNS records from the .CSV file you downloaded and add them to your domain's DNS settings.
557 Click "Save" or "Update" (this will vary depending on your domain registrar).

Once the settings are populated, any further emails being sent out will not go into spam unless an email from your site is manually "spammed" by the client. 

Please note: It normally takes anywhere from 4 to 6 hours up to 72 hours for the DKIM settings to become verified.



Website builder and themes overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/website-builder-and-themes-overview

Website builder and themes overview
Learn how to edit the appearance and content of your website/forms using the BookingKoala website & theme builder.

Last updated on 17 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ What is the website and theme builder
Ģ Where to preview your website
Ģ How to open the website and theme builder
Ģ Where to view and purchase different themes for your website

What is the website and theme builder?
The Website Builder and Themes section controls all of the aesthetic choices you can apply to your website and forms.  To get there, go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

You will be brought to the Website Builder & Themes page.

Preview Website

Click the light blue " Preview Website " button at the top right corner of the page to get a link to your website as customers will see it.

Click the blue " Copy Link " button to copy the link, and then paste it into a private / incognito window to view your site. If you do not open a private browser window and you are logged into the admin end of your site, you will be automatically logged in again.

Preview Theme

To preview the theme you are currently using, click the light blue " Preview Theme " button towards the center of the page.  You can click between the desktop , tablet , and phone icons to view each version of your site.  Click " Back to Editor " to open the website and theme editor .

Customize Theme

You can also open the website and theme editor by clicking on the orange " Customize Theme " button.

This is where you can customize the visual appearance of your forms and website.

Click the links to view guides on how to do the following:

Ģ Customize the look of your website
Ģ Switch, disable, or delete a page
Ģ Rearrange sections on your booking form
Ģ Make the booking summary scroll
Ģ Change your favicon
Ģ Add a new page to your website
Ģ Add a page to your header/footer
Ģ Add, edit, or disable your header/footer menus
Ģ Add a page link to your header/footer menu
Ģ Add a pop-up to your site/page
Ģ Add a thank you page to your site
Ģ Edit the booking form text and sections
Ģ Edit the booking form booking summary
Ģ Enable/disable the "How It Works" section
Ģ Edit the "Privacy Policy" or "Terms of Service"
Ģ Edit the FAQs section on the booking page
Ģ Remove "Powered by BookingKoala" Branding (Growing/Premium only)
Ģ Disable gift cards and/or referral credits (Growing/Premium only)
Ģ Add tracking codes to pages of your site
Ģ Edit your website's SEO metadata
Ģ How to reindex your website
Ģ Enable/disable website password protection
Ģ Buy a BookingKoala domain
Ģ Edit the privacy policy & terms of service pop-ups
Ģ Terms & conditions checkbox
Ģ Change the layout of the "Customer Details" and address section
Ģ Edit the customer dashboard pages
Ģ Edit the payment details pages

Change Theme

If you'd like to view other themes for your site, click the green " Change Theme " button. A pop-up window will appear showing you the various themes you have to pick from.

Click the orange " View Demo " button to view an example of that theme being used. Please note that each theme can be further customized beyond the example you see.

The theme you are currently using will say " Active " next to it. If you'd like to try a 10-day free trial of another theme, click the green " 10 Day Free Trial " button.

An " Install Theme " pop-up window will appear, asking you to confirm your payment method or add a new card on file.  Once you've added your payment method, click the blue " Install " button to install the theme.

Your card will be charged 10 days after you've installed the theme unless you decide to switch back to the free Simple Theme .



Themes vs forms
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/themes-vs-forms

Themes vs forms
Learn the difference between themes and forms and how to change your website's theme.

Last updated on 11 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ The difference between themes and forms
Ģ How to purchase a new theme

What are themes and forms?
In BookingKoala, a "theme" refers to the overall aesthetic design of your website. This includes all the fonts, colors, layouts, background images, and header/footer designs for each page.

When you first sign up for your account, your website comes with the Simple Theme. You can view what this theme looks like by going to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click the blue "Preview Theme" button to launch the website builder's preview mode.

You can customize most aspects of the Simple Theme by using the website and theme builder. To open the site builder, click the "Back To Editor" link at the top-left corner of the screen.

In contrast, "Forms" are pages that are designed to engage the customer in some way, whether it is scheduling a service, purchasing a gift card, or logging into their dashboard.

Each form can be found on a different page in the website builder. If you already have a website, you can embed any of these forms onto your site using embed codes.

Ģ Booking forms are designed to allow customers to schedule bookings with a provider.
? All booking forms you create will be displayed on the "Book Now" page in the website builder.
Ģ Lead forms are designed to capture requests for service or more information about your business.
? Your lead form is displayed on the "Contact Us" page in the website builder.
Ģ The Send Gift Card form is designed to allow customers to purchase and send gift cards to their friends and family members.
? The gift card form is displayed on the "Gift Cards" page in the website builder.
Ģ The Login form is displayed on the "Login" page in the website builder.
Ģ The Signup form allows customers to sign up for an account with your business.
? The signup form is located on the "Sign Up" page in the website builder.
? Customers can also sign up via their Google or Facebook accounts.

If you are embedding the forms onto an existing website, you can still use the website and theme builder to customize the appearance of your forms.

How to Purchase a New Theme
If you are looking to quickly change the appearance of your website, there are several paid themes available in BookingKoala. To view these, go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the green "Change Theme" button. A pop-up window will display the various themes you have to pick from.

Click the orange "View Demo" button to view an example of the theme as a website.

If you'd like to try a 10-day free trial of a paid theme, click the green "10-Day Free Trial" button.

An "Install Theme" pop-up window will appear, asking you to confirm your payment method or add a new card on file. Once you've added your payment method, click the blue "Install" button to install the theme.

Your card will be charged 10 days after you've installed the theme unless you switch back to the free Simple Theme and delete the paid theme.



Customize the look of your website
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/customize-the-look-of-your-forms

Customize the look of your website
Learn how to customize the look of your website.

Last updated on 10 Dec, 2025

In this article, you will learn more about:
Ģ Customizing the appearance of your BookingKoala forms
Ģ How to edit the form builder elements
Ģ How to rearrange form elements
Ģ How to duplicate, hide, or delete form elements
Ģ The general design drop-down menu
Ģ The difference between "Save" and "Save & Publish"

Customize the Look of your Website
To begin customizing the look of your forms, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.

When you first land on the website editor, you will be brought to your "Home Page". This is the landing page your customers will see when they type in your web address.

Edit the Form Elements
To edit the elements on the page, hover your cursor over an element until you see several action buttons appear. A white "Edit" button will appear in the top left corner of the block.

A pop-up window will appear with options to change the appearance of the block. Click the plus and minus icons to expand or hide additional sections to edit.

Add/Replace/Remove Media To edit the Media in a block, hover your cursor over the image or video and click "Replace" or "Remove". If you are replacing the image, you can upload a new one from your device. Once you've uploaded an image into the web builder, you'll be able to use it across the platform for any of your pages.

Edit/Hide Text and Descriptions To edit Text, hover over the text block until the "Edit" button appears. Expand the "Style Settings" section in the pop-up to change the color of the text.

If you ever want to hide text or a description in a block, click the green "Show" button to switch it to "Hide".

Edit Button Style and Links You can also edit the buttons on any page by clicking "Edit" and then clicking on the color palette icon to view the various style options and change the colors.

You can change the links for each button by clicking the "Link" button. There are multiple options for what you can link to each button.

If you select the "Page" tab, you can select an existing BookingKoala page to open. You can also link a web address, email address, phone number, popup, or redirect to a specific section of the page.

Rearrange Blocks
To rearrange the order of the blocks on your page, hover over the section you'd like to move and click the white "Move Up" or "Move Down" buttons.

This will bump the section up or down from its current position.

Click here to learn how to rearrange the section in your booking form.

Duplicate, Hide or Delete Form Elements
To duplicate a block you are using on your page, hover over the section you'd like to duplicate and click the three vertical dots icon and select "Duplicate". This will insert an exact copy of the element just below.

If you want to hide a section from your page, click the three vertical dots icon and then select "Hide Section". This will remove the section from being seen by yourself or your customers, but will not delete any content you have added. A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to hide the section. Click "Yes" to proceed.

You can display the section again by clicking the "Hidden Elements" menu at the top of the screen and clicking the hidden section. A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to display the section. Click "Yes" to proceed.

To delete a form element, click the three vertical dots icon and select "Delete". A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to delete the section. Click "Yes" to proceed.

General Design Menu
To set the general colors and fonts for the text and links on your site, click on the "Design" drop-down menu at the top of the page.

This menu allows you to update the fonts, colors, and general CSS on your site.

To update your design colors, select "Colors" from the drop-down menu. This will open a left-side menu where you can manage the colors of your text and links.

First, click the red "Disabled" button to change it to "Enabled". Then select which colors you'd like each type of text to be.

Click the blue "Update" button at the bottom of the left-side menu to save your color changes.

To update your font family and the general font size of the site, select the "Font" option from the "Design" drop-down menu. Click the red "Disabled" button to change it to "Enabled". Then, select the font size and family that you'd like to use.

Click the blue "Update" button at the bottom of the left-side menu to save your font changes.

If you have custom CSS, you can use the "Custom CSS" option under the "Design" menu to enter code to add to your site.

Page Design Settings
To set a background color for the page, click the grey "Page Design Settings" button in the top right corner of the page.

This will open a "Page Design" pop-up. Click the white "Choose Color" button to select a background color for your page. By default, the background color will be set to white.

Saving Your Work
Once you are finished making changes to your pages, there are two different options for saving your work.

Click the white "Save" button in the top right corner of the page to save your changes, but NOT push them live to your website. This means these changes will be saved on the backend of your website, but customers will not yet be able to see them.

Once you are ready for your customers to see your changes, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top rightmost corner. This will push your updates live to your website.



Rearrange sections in the booking form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/rearrange-sections-on-my-booking-form

Rearrange sections in the booking form
Learn how to change the order of the sections in the booking form.

Last updated on 13 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to rearrange sections on your booking form

Rearranging the Booking Form Sections
To rearrange the sections on your booking form, go to: Settings > Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes > Customize Theme

Click the Page Menu at the top center of the screen and select " Book Now ".

Scroll down below the Industry tabs and Form Numbers until you see these buttons: Customize , Rearrange , and Settings. Click on " Rearrange ".

Use the drag and drop each section by clicking and holding your cursor over the section you would like to move, then drag it into a new position in the list.

Once you have set up the sections the way you want them, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the section to save the order to the backend of the site.

Click the green " Save & Publish " button to push the update live to your site and booking form.

You can also reset the order back to the system default by clicking the orange " Reset to Default " button.



Make the booking summary scroll
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/make-the-booking-summary-scroll

Make the booking summary scroll
Learn how to make the booking summary scroll with the customer while they are on the booking form.

Last updated on 11 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand how to:
Ģ Make the booking summary scrollable

Enable the Scrolling Booking Summary
To make your booking form scroll up or down as the client navigates your booking form, go to: Settings > Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.

Click on the "Page" menu at the top center of the screen and select the "Book Now" page.

Scroll down slightly until you see three buttons: "Customize", "Rearrange", and "Settings". Click on the "Settings" button.

A pop-up window will appear.

Under "Enable scrollable booking summary on mobile?", select "Yes" to enable the scrollable booking summary on mobile.

Under "Booking summary should be scrollable?", select "Yes" to enable the scrollable booking summary for desktop web browsers.

Optionally, you can set a top margin for how much space you'd like between the top of the screen and the booking summary by entering the number of pixels into the box below. Then, click the blue "Save" button.

For the booking summary to scroll on desktop browsers, it must be positioned below the other sections on the left side of the booking form.

To do this, click on the "Rearrange" button just left of the "Settings" button.

On the left side of the page, click and drag the "Summary Box" down to the bottom of the list.

Then scroll down to the bottom of this section and click the green "Save & Publish" button to update the order.

Your booking summary will now scroll with your customers as they navigate your booking form.



Change my favicon
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/change-my-favicon

Change my favicon
Learn where to change your favicon.

Last updated on 29 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ What a favicon is
Ģ How to change your favicon

What is a favicon?
A favicon, also known as a shortcut icon, website icon, tab icon, URL icon, or bookmark icon, is a file containing one or more small icons, associated with a particular website or web page.

This is located in the website URL of any browser you use. It helps distinguish your site from others by displaying your logo.

Changing Your Favicon
First, you will need to have created a favicon of your logo to replace the BookingKoala favicon.

The ideal size for the favicon is 20 x 20 px, but your file can be as large as 50 x 50 px.

To replace the BookingKoala favicon with your own, go to:

Settings > Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes > Customize Theme

Click on the Settings tab at the top of the page.  A side menu will appear on the left side of the page.

Scroll down until you see "Add Favicon" .  Click "Add Image" .  Click the grey camera to choose your favicon, then click the blue " Upload Image " button.

Then, click on the blue "Select" button.  You will be redirected to the side menu again. Click on the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the section.

To push your update live, click on the blue " Save and Publish" button in the top right-hand corner of the screen. Your favicon will now display on the front end of your website after it has been reindexed.

Tips for Success

558 Use the Right Favicon Format: Try using the "ico" format for the image. Google prefers the "ico" format for favicons in search results. Follow the guidelines in this article to ensure your favicon meets its requirements.
559 Update Favicon in Theme Builder: Go to Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme in the Advanced Theme Builder. Locate the favicon option and upload the "ico" format image per the instructions above.
560 Submit Site for Reindexing: After updating the favicon, submit your site for reindexing through Google Search Console. Google usually takes around 3-4 days to update the favicon image in search results.

If the updated favicon image is not showing on the website page after this, we recommend you to clear the browser cache and reload the page with CTRL+SHIFT+R.

If there is a delay in the favicon displaying on your website, please email us at support@bookingkoala.com and we'll be happy to look into the situation for you.



Switch, disable, & delete a page from your site
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/switch-which-page-you-want-to-edit

Switch, disable, & delete a page from your site
Learn how to switch between pages when editing your theme, disable a page from showing, or delete it altogether.

Last updated on 10 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to change which page you want to edit
Ģ How to disable a page from showing
Ģ How to delete a page

Switch Pages
To view different pages in your website builder, you can use the "Page" menu located at the top center of the menu bar. To begin, open the website builder by going to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.

When you first land on the website editor, you will be brought to your "Home Page". This is the landing page your customers will see when they type in your web address.

To change the page you'd like to edit, click the "Page" drop-down menu located at the top center of the screen.

Once you click the "Page" menu, you can select which page you'd like to view. A left-side menu will open. You can close out the side menu using the "X" icon.

Disable or Delete a Page
The "Manage Pages" menu that appears on the left also allows you to disable or enable a page, as well as view the page's settings.

If you'd like to hide a page completely, click the "Page" menu at the top center of the screen and select "Manage Pages".

Click on the three dots icon and select "Hide" to disable a page. A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to disable the page. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

If you'd like to reactivate a page, simply go back to the "Manage Pages" sidebar and click the three dots icon again. A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to reactivate the page. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

Please note you can only delete any pages that you have created. The following pages are a part of the software and cannot be deleted and can only be disabled:
Ģ Home
Ģ Gift Cards
Ģ Earn Credits
Ģ Login
Ģ Sign Up
Ģ Book Now
Ģ Get Quote
Ģ Reset Password
Ģ Thank You Page
Ģ Forgot Password

If you would like to delete a page, click the "Page" menu at the top center of the screen and select "Manage Pages". Then, click the three vertical dots icon and select "Delete".

A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to delete this page. Remember, the page cannot be retrieved once it has been deleted. If you are sure, click the blue "Yes" button to proceed with the deletion.

A green system notification will appear at the top center of the page, letting you know that the page has been deleted successfully.



Add a new page in your website builder
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-new-page-in-your-website-builder

Title: Add a new page in your website builder

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to add a new page to your website

Add a New Page
The BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder allows you to create a complete website for your business by adding as many pages as you need. You can create extra pages to showcase your:
Ģ Services
Ģ Blog
Ģ Testimonials
Ģ Social media reviews
Ģ Hiring info

To begin, open the website builder by going to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange " Customize Theme " button to open the website and theme editor.

When you first land in the website editor, you will be brought to your Home Page . To add a new page, click the white " Add " button at the top right corner of the menu and select " Page ".

A pop-up window will appear where you can enter the Page Title . Click the blue " Save " button to continue.

A green system notification will appear at the top of the screen letting you know the page has been created successfully. You will be redirected to your new page.

Hover over the page preview with your cursor to view options to modify the content.

561 Edit - Click here to view options for editing the content and appearance of this block.
562 Add Section - Click this button to add a new section above or below an existing section.
563 Three dots icon - This contains the following options:
564 Duplicate - This option will make an exact copy of the selected section and insert it below.
565 Delete - This option will permanently delete the section from your page.
566 Hide Section - This option will hide the section from your site. Any changes you have made to that block will be retained if you wish to show it again.

When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the " Save " button to save your changes to the backend, or " Save & Publish " to push your changes live to your site.



Embed forms on your existing website
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/embed-the-forms-on-your-existing-website

Embed forms on your existing website
Learn how to embed the BookingKoala forms onto your existing website.

Last updated on 02 Sept, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Locate the embed codes for your BookingKoala Forms
Ģ Generate booking form embed codes for multiple industries

Locate the Embed Codes
If you already have an existing website and do not need to use the BookingKoala website builder that comes with your account, you can easily embed your BookingKoala forms into your existing website.

To do this, you will need to copy the iframe codes from inside BookingKoala and paste them into a page in your existing website builder.

To begin, go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Embed Forms

You will be redirected to a page that contains codes and links to each of the following:
Ģ Booking form(s)
Ģ Login form
Ģ Signup form
Ģ Gift Card form
Ģ Lead/Contact Us form
Ģ Live Reviews form

To embed the form into your existing page, double-click inside the box to copy the iframe embed code or web address link (this will depend on which website builder you use).

Generate Embed Codes for Multiple Industries
You can also generate a separate booking form code for each industry if you have multiple industries. To do this, go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Embed Forms

The first section on this page is the embed code/link for your booking form.

Scroll down to the question "Do you want to generate embed code for a specific industry?" and select "Yes".

Next, select which industry you'd like to generate a code for.

Under "Do you want to hide industry bar?", select "Yes" to hide the industry bar for the booking form, or "No" to display it.

Under "Do you want to hide banner section?", select "Yes" to hide the banner section, or "No" to display it on the form.

Finally, click the blue "Generate Code" button to generate the embed code for your booking form.

A new box with the code will appear below. Once you copy the code, you can paste it into your website builder and the form will appear once the changes have been saved.



Edit the header and footer menus
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-modify-disable-header-and-footer-menus

Edit the header and footer menus
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-modify-disable-header-and-footer-menus

Learn how to edit the header and footer menus on your BookingKoala website.

Last updated on 08 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn: 
Ģ How to edit header and footer menus
Ģ How to disable a header or footer

What are the header and footer menus?
The header menu, when enabled, is the topmost section on any given page of your website. This menu displays your business's logo as well as links to important pages of your website.  If you are utilizing the translation feature, you can also click the flag icon to switch between languages.

When enabled, the footer menu is displayed at the very bottom of your webpage.  This menu also contains your business's logo, links to various pages, as well as additional options for linking social media buttons or adding contact information.  

When you first sign up for BookingKoala, your account comes with a website that has the header and footer menus enabled for all pages. However, you want to edit the existing headers or disable them altogether.  To make these changes, access the website and theme builder by going to: 

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.  

Updating the Header Menu
Once you first open the website and theme builder, you will be directed to your home page. By default, the header will be enabled for your website. 

To begin editing, hover your cursor over the header until a white "Edit" button appears in the top left corner of the section.  

A menu will open on the left side of the screen. There are two different sections within the menu: Content and Design.  The "Content" tab controls the menu's links, logo, and layout while the "Design" tab controls the header's colors and width.

Header Content: Logo
First, decide if you would like to upload your business's logo to be displayed on the header menu.  If you only want the logo to display on certain pages of your site, click the "Manage per page settings" link below the "Show" button.

A pop-up will display all of the pages you have added to your site. If you would like to hide the logo from a page, check the box next to its name and then click the blue "Save" button. In the example below, the logo will be hidden from the "Reset Password" and "Forgot Password" pages. 

To upload your logo, hover your cursor over the image in the "Add Logo" section and click "Add Image".

A pop-up image will appear. You can click "Add images to your site" to upload an image from your device.  Once the icon has been selected, click the green "Upload Image" button.  

If you have already uploaded your icon to the website builder before, click the "Gallery" tag, click the image you would like to add, and then press the blue "Select" button.  

Once you've uploaded your logo image, you can use the "Set Logo Width" section to adjust the width of the logo in pixels. You can also add space above or below the logo by using the "Logo Padding" section.  For this, you can use pixels, REMs, or EMs as the unit of measurement. 

If you want the logo to be clickable, select "Yes" under "Do you want the menu logo to be clickable?" Click the "Manage per page settings" link if you would like to set pages where the logo will NOT be clickable. 

Below, add the URL you want to link to the logo.  If you leave this box empty, the logo will automatically redirect users to your home page (or the login page if the home page is disabled).  

If you do not want to use a logo in your header menu, click the green "Show" button to switch it to "Hide".  

Header Content: Menu
This section allows you to edit, disable, or delete the header menu. If you would like to preview what the menu will look like before a customer is logged in, be sure the toggle button is set to "Show". 

You can also preview what the menu will look like once the customer is logged in by setting the toggle button next to "Menu after login" to "Show". 

To begin making changes to the menu items, click the "Edit Menu" link below the drop-down box. 

You will be redirected to the header and footer menu.  

Ģ Click the eye icon to disable the menu. This means the menu will not be displayed on any of your pages.  If the eye icon has a slash through it, click it once to re-enable the menu.  
Ģ Click the pencil icon to view and edit the links for this menu.
Ģ Click the trashcan icon to delete the menu. A pop-up will appear asking if you are sure you want to delete the menu. If you are certain, click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.  
Ģ Click the plus sign icon/"Create New Menu" link to create a new menu from scratch.

Once you click the "Edit" button, you will see the header's title and links listed below.  

Click the "Add Menu Item" link to link a new page to your header, or the three dots icon next to an existing item to edit its settings or delete it.  

Click here for more detailed instructions on how to add and edit links in your header or footer menus.  

For "Do you want the same menu after login?", select one of the following options:
Ģ Yes - All the header menus that you have created for the frontend customers will be available for the backend customers.
Ģ No - The default menu in the customer dashboard appears which have the 5 menu options as "Book Now", "Bookings", "Gift Cards", "Earn Credits", and "Contact Us" along with the Account dropdown menu.

Beneath this section, decide if you would like to show or hide the Login and Signup links for the menu after login.

Header Design
Click on the "Design" tab to view options for the header's general appearance. 

For the header layout, select "Fixed Width" to spread your logo and menu items across the entire width of the page.  If you select "Full Width", you can add padding to the left and right sides of the header to create an indentation before the content is displayed.  

Below, select the colors for the header's background, menu text, active tabs, and mobile menu icon. 

Once you close out the left-side menu, your header updates will be displayed in the website preview.

Updating the Footer Menu
When you first open the website and theme builder, you will be directed to your home page. By default, the footer will be enabled for your website. 

To begin editing it, scroll down to the bottom of the page and hover your cursor over the footer until a white "Edit" button appears in the top left corner of the section.  

A menu will open on the left side of the screen. There are two different sections within the menu: Content and Design.  The "Content" tab controls the menu's links, logo, and layout while the "Design" tab controls the footer's colors and fonts.

Footer Content: Layout
At the top of this section, you can preview different footer layouts by using the "Select Footer Type" dropdown menu.  

For the footer layout, select "Fixed Width" to spread your logo and menu items across the entire width of the page.  If you select "Full Width", you can add padding to the left and right sides of the header to create an indentation before the content is displayed.  

Footer Content: Logo
The footer section contains all of the same logo options that are offered in the header section. 

Please visit the "Header Content: Logo" section above to revisit these settings.  

Footer Content: Menu
The footer section also contains the same options for adding links and footer visibility as the header section.

Please visit the "Header Content: Menu" section above to revisit these settings.  

Footer Content: Social Links
In addition to menu links, footers also can display "social links", or links to the various social media pages for your business.  

To use this feature, make sure the toggle button is set to "Show".

Ģ Click the eye icon to disable the social link. This means the menu will not be displayed on any of your pages. 
Ģ If the eye icon has a slash through it, click it once to re-enable the social link.  
Ģ Click the pencil icon to view and edit the social links in the footer.
Ģ Click the trashcan icon to delete a social link.
Ģ A pop-up will appear asking if you are sure you want to delete the link. If you are certain, click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.  
Ģ If you only want the social links to display on certain pages of your site, click the "Manage per page settings" link.
Ģ A pop-up will display all of the pages you have added to your site. If you would like to hide the logo from a page, check the box next to its name and then click the blue "Save" button.
Ģ Click the "Add social link" link to add a new social link to your footer.

When you edit or add a new social link, you will be redirected to a "Social Link" page within the left-side menu. 

Here, you can enter the name, set the URL, and upload an image to represent the link.

Footer Content: Phone Number
The footer menu can also display a contact phone number for your business.  To use this feature, make sure the toggle button is set to "Show".  

Enter a description into the "Label" box and then list the phone number including any/all country codes, area codes, etc. in the "Number" box. 

If you only want the phone number to display on certain pages of your site, click the "Manage per page settings" link below the "Show" button.

A pop-up will display all of the pages you have added to your site. If you would like to hide the phone number from a page, check the box next to its name and then click the blue "Save" button. In the example below, the phone number will be hidden from the "Leads" page. 

Footer Content: Copyright
If you would like to include a copyright statement at the bottom of your footer, make sure the toggle button is set to "Show" next to the "Copyright Text" section, then enter the message into the box below.  

There is also a "Manage per page settings" link to control which pages you would like to hide the copyright text from.  

Footer Content: Cookies
The last section in the footer "Content" section is the "Accept cookies" bar.  

When the toggle button is set to "Show", visitors will see a bar across the bottom of the page informing them about your site's cookie policies.

Visitors can click the "Cookie Settings" link inside the bar to view more information about the cookie settings and opt out of non-essential cookies using the toggle button.

Enter the main message in the box beneath "Accept Cookies Bar".

You can edit the link name in the box beneath "Cookie Settings" and the "Accept Cookies Button" text.

Next, set up the cookies pop-up that displays when the visitor clicks the link in the bar.  Enter the title into the "Cookie Popup Title" box and add a description to the pop-up using the "Cookie Popup Description" box.   

There are two sections within the pop-up, "Necessary" and "Non-Necessary".

The "Necessary" tab explains that there are certain cookies that are required to keep your website running securely and efficiently. These cookies do not collect personal information.

Enter a tab title, sub-title, and description into the first set of boxes.

The "Non-Necessary" tab explains the type of cookies the visitor can opt out of.  These cookies involve capturing visitor information for analytics, marketing, or user engagement.  

Enter a tab title, description, and cookie pop-up button label into the second set of boxes.  

Footer Content: Design
Click on the "Design" tab to view options for the footer's general appearance. 

The first three boxes control the background color, menu text color, and menu active tab color.

The mobile menu icon color controls the color of the menu symbol when displayed in the header or footer.

If you are using the "Copyright" section in your footer, you will see options to change the background color, text color, and font size.

If you have enabled the "Accept Cookies Bar", use the following options to set the color and font sizes for the bar's background color, text color, and font size.  

Use these boxes to set the "Cookie Settings" link text color and font size.

Set the color of the "Accept Cookies" button text and color. 

The last set of boxes controls the button color and text color of the "Accept Cookies"/"Ok" button inside the cookies pop-up.

Finishing Up
Once you are finished configuring your header and footer menus, you can close out the left-side menu using the X icon. 

The web builder will automatically display any changes you've made in the site preview. To save the design changes on the backend (just inside the website builder), click the white "Save" button at the top right corner of the page.  

If you are ready to push the updates live, click the blue "Save & Publish" button.  

Still Have Questions?
If you have questions on how to edit the header or footer menu and do not see the answer in this guide, please contact our support team at support@bookingkoala.com.  



Add a page to my header/footer menu
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-page-to-my-header-footer

Add a page to my header/footer menu
Learn how to add a page link to your header or footer on your BookingKoala website or forms.

Last updated on 07 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to add a page link to your header or footer

Add a Page Link to Your Header or Footer
Once you have created a page, you will want to add a link to it in your header or footer. This will allow customers to easily locate and navigate to your page.

To do this, you will open the website and theme builder. Please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange " Customize Theme " button to open the website and theme editor.

Once inside the builder, hover your cursor over the header or footer content on the page and click the white " Manage Menu " button in the top left corner of the area.

You will be redirected to the header and footer menu. Select the menu you would like to add the page to, then click the " + Add Item " link at the top of the list.

Enter a label for the link to the page. Then click " Link " to select the page you'd like to open when the link is clicked.

Once you click " Link ", a pop-up will appear with several tabs. If you are adding a Bookingkoala page, click " Page " and then select which page you would like to link. You also have options to enter a web address, email address, phone number, pop-up, or redirect to a section of a particular page.

Click the blue " Save " button to save your selection. You will now see your option selected in the " Link " box. To add the link to your header or footer, click the blue " Add " button just below the link box.

Once you've added the page, you will see it at the top of your menu items list. To rearrange the order of the pages in your menu, click on the sandwich icon to drag and drop the link into a new position.

To create a drop-down menu, drag the icon below and to the right of another menu item.

Once finished, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the left-side menu to save your updated header or footer item.

A green system notification will appear at the top center of the screen, letting you know your header or footer has been updated.

Remember to click " Save " or " Save & Publish " to save the changes to your backend or push them live to your site.



Add a pop-up
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-pop-up

Add a pop-up
Learn how to add a pop-up to your BookingKoala website.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are pop-ups
Ģ How to add a pop-up to your website
Ģ How to manage existing pop-ups

What are pop-ups?
One of the great features of the BookingKoala website and theme builder is that you can add pop-ups to your website.

Pop-ups can be used in a variety of ways:
Ģ Welcome visitors to your website
Ģ Promote a service
Ģ Advertise a coupon
Ģ Subscribe visitors to your mailing list
Ģ Send a coupon via a subscription to your mailing list
Ģ Display contact information
Ģ Play a video or ad

Pop-ups can be triggered automatically or connected to buttons or links on your website. Your website already comes with two pop-ups to display your privacy policy and terms of service.

Add a Pop-Up
To add a new pop-up to your site, you'll first need to open the website and theme builder. Please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.

Next, click on the white "Add" button at the top left side of the menu, and select "Pop-Up".

An "Add Pop-Up" menu will appear on the left side of the screen. This contains several different templates you can browse through:
Ģ Welcome Pop-Ups
Ģ Promotion Pop-Ups
Ģ Subscription Pop-Ups
Ģ Contact Us Pop-Ups
Ģ Privacy Policy/Terms of Service Pop-Up
Ģ Short Form Pop-Up
Ģ Video Pop-Up
Ģ Custom Pop-Up

Hover your cursor over the pop-up you'd like to add and click "Add This Pop-Up". Then click the "Settings" button to configure the pop-up.

The pop-up name will only be seen by you, so you can give it a label that makes it easy to recognize.

If you would like the pop-up to display automatically, check the box next to "Automatically display popup". If you've selected this option, decide whether the pop-up will occur on All pages, or select the specific pages you want it to display on.

Under "Delay", select how many seconds you want the system to wait before displaying the pop-up.

Select an option for if the pop-up should display once or each time the page is reloaded.
Ģ Should show up every time you go to a page
Ģ Just on time per visit to the site

Pick when the pop-up will show:
Ģ Every visit
Ģ Once every [day/week/month]
Ģ Every [1-100] [days/weeks/months]

For the position, select where the pop-up will display relative to the rest of the page.

Click "Choose Color" to change the background color of the pop-up.

Below this area, you will find the Popup Form Settings. These will vary depending on which variety of pop-ups you are using.

Click the blue "Manage pop-up content" link to edit the test inside the pop-up. Then, click the blue "Save" button to save whatever changes you've made.

Some pop-ups have buttons that you can set up. These can be enabled or disabled by clicking the "Hide/Show" button.

Click the blue "Link" button to add a link to your button. You can link a page, web address, email address, phone number, pop-up, or section on your site. Once you've selected your link destination, click the blue "Save" button.

Once you are finished setting up your pop-up, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the window.

You will see a preview of your pop-up as well as a green system notification, letting you know the pop-up has been saved. From here, you can click the "Settings" button again to continue making changes, or the "X" icon to close out the pop-up.

Don't forget to click the "Save" or "Save & Publish" button in the top right corner to save and/or publish the pop-up to your website.

Manage Pop-Ups
Once a pop-up has been added, it can be revisited by going to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme > Page > Manage Pop-Ups

A menu will open on the left side of the screen with categories for each type of pop-up your website is using.

Pop-ups added through the website builder are found under the Website Popups category. Pop-ups relating to the customer dashboard are located in the Customer Dashboard Popups section. Lead popups are in Lead Popups, hiring popups in Hiring Popups, etc.

567 Click on the pop-up's name to view and edit its appearance and content.
568 Click the three dots icon and select Settings to view and edit the pop-up's position on the screen.

Customer Dashboard Pop-Ups All accounts will have a Customer Dashboard Popups section to manage the various pop-ups customers experience when logged into their customer dashboards.
Ģ Add Card
Ģ Add Other Contact
Ģ Address
Ģ Cancel Popup
Ģ Cancelation Type Popup
Ģ Cancel Reason Popup
Ģ Change Billing Address
Ģ Change Password
Ģ Charge Reschedule Fee
Ģ Confirmation Popup
Ģ Contract
Ģ Deactivate Account
Ģ Give Tip
Ģ How It Works
Ģ Make Card Default
Ģ Merchant Locations
Ģ Message Popup
Ģ Postpone Popup
Ģ Rating Popup
Ģ Referral Popup
Ģ Select Industry Popup
Ģ Share Review
The Share Review popup settings can also be controlled under:Settings > General > Store Options > Customer > Bookings > Would you like to allow your customers to rate your service? > Yes > Would you like to give your customers the option to share their internal review on an external review platform? > Yes.
Ģ View Other Contacts
Ģ View Provider Reviews



Add a thank you page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-thank-you-page

Add a thank you page
Learn how to create and add a thank you page or link an existing page to your booking form.

Last updated on 16 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How to add a thank you page
Ģ How to connect the thank you page to your booking form
Ģ Adding a custom URL for the thank you page

Create a Thank You Page
If you would like to add a " Thank You " page that customers will see after saving a booking, please go to:

Settings >Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes

Click on the orange " Customize Theme " button to open the website and theme editor.

By default, you will land on your website's home page. Click the Page menu at the top center of the screen and then select " Manage Pages ".

A menu will appear on the left side of the screen. Click the blue " Add " button at the top of the menu.

A page title pop-up will ask for you to enter a name for the page and enter " Thank You page " (or any other name that will help you locate this page).

Once you click the blue " Save " button, you will be redirected to your new page.  To add the " Thank You " block to the page, hover your cursor over the page until a blue " Add Section " button appears.

A side menu will appear on the left. Scroll down and click on the " Thank You " section.  There are three different types of thank you templates to choose from.  Hover over a template with your cursor and click the white " Add this section " link.

Once the section has been added, you can modify the title, text, and button options by hovering over each element and clicking the white " Edit " button that appears.

Once you are finished creating the page, please remember to click the " Save & Publish " button at the top right-hand corner of the screen.

Connect the Thank You Page
Once you've created and saved your Thank You page, you will need to update your booking page to direct users to this page.  To set this up, select the " Book Now " page from the top-center Page menu .

Next, scroll down the page until you see four buttons that say " Change Background ", " Customize ", " Rearrange ", and " Settings ".  Click on the " Settings " button to continue.

A " Booking Form Settings " pop-up will appear.  For the first question, " Where should the customer go after booking addition? ", select " Page ".  Below, use the drop-down menu to select the " Thank You " page you just created.

Click the blue " Save " button to update your "Book Now" page settings. A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner letting you know the page has been updated successfully.

To push your updates live, please remember to click the blue " Save & Publish " button at the top-right corner of the page.

You have successfully added a Thank You page to your booking form.

Add a Custom URL Thank You Page
If you would prefer to redirect customers to an external thank you page, you can instead link a custom URL.

To set this up, select the " Book Now " page from the top-center " Pages " menu.

Next, scroll down the page until you see four buttons that say " Change Background ", " Customize ", " Rearrange ", and " Settings ".  Click on the " Settings " button to continue.

A " Booking Form Settings " pop-up will appear.  For the first question, " Where should the customer go after booking addition? ", select " URL ".  Below, enter the URL for the external thank you page under where it says " Web Address ".

Click the blue " Save " button to update your "Book Now" page settings. A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner letting you know the page has been updated successfully.

To push your updates live, please remember to click the blue " Save & Publish " button at the top-right corner of the page.

You have successfully linked a Thank You page to your booking form.



Edit the privacy policy & terms of service pop-ups
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-privacy-policy-or-terms-of-service

Edit the privacy policy & terms of service pop-ups
Learn how to edit your privacy policy and/or terms of service.

Last updated on 13 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to edit the Privacy Policy pop-up
Ģ How to edit the Terms of Service pop-up

Edit Your Privacy Policy and Terms of Service
Your BookingKoala website comes with two pre-built pop-ups that contain your privacy policy and terms of service. Links to both pop-ups are included in your footer.

The text contained in both pop-ups is just an example of what your terms of service and privacy policy might look like. To edit the text in these pop-ups, you must first open the Website and Theme Builder. Please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.

Click on the "Page" menu at the top-center of the screen, then select "Manage Pop-Ups".

A menu will appear on the left side of the screen. Click the three dots icon to reveal the menu.

569 Settings - A pop-up window will appear with your popup settings. This is where you can name your popup, decide its position, and enable settings related to automatically displaying the popup.
570 Duplicate - Make a copy of this popup.
571 Preview - Preview the popup and access the pop-up editor.
572 Delete - Delete the popup permanently. A pop-up window will confirm you are ready to proceed with deletion, as it is permanent.

Once you are done making any changes, click the blue "Save" button. You will see a preview of the pop-up. Click the grey "X" icon to close out the window.

Remember to click "Save & Publish" to save the changes to your backend or push them live to your site.



Remove "Powered by BookingKoala" branding
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/remove-powered-by-bookingkoala-branding

Remove "Powered by BookingKoala" branding
Learn how to remove the "Powered by BookingKoala" branding from your website.

Last updated on 21 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to remove the Powered by BookingKoala branding

Remove "Powered by BookingKoala" Branding
You may notice that there is BookingKoala branding located in several areas on your website.

If you are a Growing or Premium subscriber, you have the ability to remove this branding from your site.

First, go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange " Customize Theme " button to open the website and theme editor.

Next, click on the white " Settings " button at the top of the page.

This will open a menu on the left side of the page. Scroll to the bottom until you see " Powered by BookingKoala Branding ".

Toggle the button from " Enabled " to " Disabled " to remove the branding from your site. Then click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the menu.

To push the update live to your website, be sure to click the blue " Save & Publish " button at the top right-hand corner of the screen.



Disable gift cards and referrals
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/disable-gift-cards-and-referrals

Disable gift cards and referrals
Learn how to disable gift cards and referrals from inside the website and theme builder.

Last updated on 24 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to disable the gift cards section
Ģ How to disable the referrals section

Disabling gift cards and referrals
If you do NOT want to use gift cards and/or the referral system that comes with your website, you can easily disable them from inside the website and theme builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.

Click on the "Page" menu at the top-center of the screen, then select "Manage Pages".

A side menu will appear on the left.

To disable gift cards, click the three dots icons next to the "Gift Card" page and select "Hide". To disable the referral page, click the three dots icons next to the "Earn Credits" page and select "Hide".

A pop-up will appear asking "Are you sure you want to disable this page?" Select "Yes" to proceed with disabling the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top center of the page, letting you know that the page has been disabled successfully. You will now see an eye icon with a slash through it next to the page(s) you have disabled.

To push this update live to your website, click the blue "Save & Publish" button in the top right corner of the screen.

Now, customers can no longer purchase gift cards and/or send and receive referral credits from these pages. This also means that any referral credits the customer has earned previously can no longer be accessed.



Enable/disable the "How It Works" section
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/enabling-the-how-it-works-section

Enable/disable the "How It Works" section
What is the "How It Works" section?The "How It Works" section is an optional feature of your booking forms. When enabled, customers can click on the "How It Works" link on your booking page to view a video of how to schedule a service with your company or any other information you'd like them to know.
This option can be enabled per form (per industry) so you have the option to upload different videos depending on which form the customer is on.

Navigation Path to Edit the "How It Works" Section: Go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Step-by-step instructions to access the section:
573 Once the web builder loads, click on the top center Page menu and select the "Book Now" page.
574 Select an industry name and form number (if you have more than one).
575 Scroll down along the right side of the page until you see the "How It Works" box.

Disable the How It Works Feature: To disable the "How It Works" feature for a booking form, click on the box to reveal the Hide button. Once you click Hide, the box will now read "Hidden Element" and will not appear on the form.

Edit the How It Works Feature: To edit the "How It Works" section, click on the box and then select the Edit button. A Settings pop-up will appear where you can edit the text, video URL, and style of the feature.
576 Edit the text that is displayed in the "How it works" box.
577 The Video URL (see below).
578 Edit the color of the text and the background color of the "How it works" box.

Getting the Video URL:There will be a default BookingKoala video link that can be replaced with your own link.
To use your own link, you will first need to upload your video to a video-hosting site like youtube.com.
579 Once the video has been uploaded to the "Content" section on YouTube, click "View on YouTube".
580 Next, click the "Share" button and select "Embed" from the pop-up.
581 Copy just the URL in the embed code. For example, if your embed code looks like this: <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l3KmUzXK64E" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>, you will only copy the part that says: https://www.youtube.com/embed/l3KmUzXK64E.
582 Paste the link into the box to replace the BookingKoala video.
583 Click the "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page.



How to reindex your website
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-reindex-your-website

How to reindex your website
Learn how long it takes for changes to your site to appear in search engines and how to get Google to re-crawl a page.

Last updated on 12 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How long it takes Google to display site updates
Ģ How do use Google's URL Inspection tool to re-crawl a specific page

How do I edit my site's metadata?
If you would like to learn how to view or update your website's metadata for each page, please click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-your-website-s-seo-metadata).

How long does it take for site changes to appear in search results?
Whenever you make changes to your site's metadata (like the title tag, meta description, and keywords), Google and other search engines must "re-crawl" your page site to see differences between the saved version in its index and the new content. Because of this, changes will not immediately appear in search engine results. Often, it will take several weeks before the page has been crawled and the index is updated.

As well, the information you use in your page titles and descriptions are just guidelines for what Google will index. Ultimately, Google will index the content that it likes best and add it to its search results. Because of this, a website can appear differently in search results on a desktop versus a mobile device.

What is Google's URL Inspection Tool and how do I use it?
To speed up this process, you can request for Google to crawl or recrawl a specific page on your website, you can use the Google URL Inspection Tool. This will prompt Google to go through your page again and look for changes and updates.

Once you've logged into the Search Console, click here (https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/crawling/ask-google-to-recrawl) to view instructions on how to request Google to recall your URLs.



Disable the header and footer menus
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/disable-the-header-and-footer-menus

Disable the header and footer menus
Learn how to hide or disable the header and footer menus from your website.

Last updated on 11 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to edit header and footer menus
Ģ How to disable a header or footer

What are the header and footer menus?
The header menu, when enabled, is the topmost section on any given page of your website. This menu displays your business's logo as well as links to important pages of your website. If you are utilizing the translation feature, you can also click the flag icon to switch between languages.

When enabled, the footer menu is displayed at the very bottom of your webpage. This menu also contains your business's logo, links to various pages, as well as additional options for linking social media buttons or adding contact information.

When you first sign up for BookingKoala, your account comes with a website that has the header and footer menus enabled for all pages. However, if you want to disable one or both, can you easily do so.

Disable the Header/Footer Menus for the Entire Site
To disable the header and/or footer in general, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.

By default, you will land on your website's home page. Hover over the header section until a white "Edit" button appears in the top-left corner of the block.

The header menu will appear on the left side of the screen. Scroll down until you see the section "Menu before login" and click the "Edit Menu" link.

You will be redirected to the general menu for both your header and footer. To disable the header or footer for your entire site, click the three dots on the right side of the menu and select "Hide".

A pop-up will appear asking if you are sure you want to disable the header or footer menu. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

A green system notification will appear at the top of the page confirming that the header or footer menu has been disabled. An eye icon with a slash through it indicates that this menu is now disabled.

Once you are finished in this section, click the X icon to exit the header/footer menu, or the back arrow icon to go back to the main menu.

To push your updates live, please remember to click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top-right corner of the page. You can also click the "Save" button if you only want to save these changes in the backend.

Disable the Header/Footer Menus by Page
To disable the header and/or footer on a page-by-page basis, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.

By default, you will land on your website's home page. To disable the header and/or footer for this page, click on the grey "Page Settings" button near the top right corner of the screen.

A page settings menu will appear. To disable the header or footer, select a page, click on the Layouts tab, and then select "Yes" for "Do you want to hide the header/footer for this page?"

If you have selected "No" for the first question, you'll see a second question just below that says "Do you want to hide the complete menu on this page or just some specific tab(s)?"

Ģ If you select "Complete", only your business logo will be displayed in the header/footer.
Ģ If you select "Specific", you can decide which menu items you do not want to be displayed by checking the box next to the page name.
Once saved, the header/footer will only display the pages that have not been checked.
Ģ If you select "None", all of your linked pages will be displayed in the header/footer.

Once you have finished making your selections, click the blue "Save" button to update your header and/or footer preferences for the page.

To push your updates live, please remember to click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top-right corner of the page.



Enable/disable website password protection
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/enable-disable-website-password-protection

Enable/disable website password protection
Learn how to enable or disable the password protection feature which requires visitors to enter a password before they can view or use your website.

Last updated on 13 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Understand how the password protection feature works
Ģ Learn how to enable or disable password protection for your website

How does the password protection feature work?
The password protection feature allows you to require visitors to enter a password before they can view/use your BookingKoala website. Password protection is a helpful feature if you are still setting up your website or are in the process of migrating from another platform to BookingKoala.

When enabled, this feature ensures that pages linked to your domain cannot be viewed without first providing the site's password. The admin can share the password with developers, staff, and any other users who need to view/utilize the site while it is protected from the general public. Once the site is ready to be published, password protection can be easily disabled.

Enable and Disable Password Protection
To enable password protection for your BookingKoala site, start by going to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

On this page, click the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme builder.

Once you have logged into the website builder, click on the "Settings" button near the top left side of the page.

A menu will appear on the left side of the page. Scroll down the "General" tab until you see "Enable password protect?"

Ģ Toggle the slider to "Yes" (green) if you would like to activate password protection.
? If you are enabling password protection, enter the password that will be required to access your website.
? There is also a box where you can add a "message for visitors". This can include instructions and/or an explanation as to why the site is currently password-protected.
Ģ If you currently have password protection enabled, you can disable it by switching the toggle button back to "No".

Once you are finished making any changes, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the side menu. Finally, be sure to click the "Save & Publish" button in the top right corner of the website builder to push your changes live.



Edit your website's SEO metadata
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-your-website-s-seo-metadata

Edit your website's SEO metadata
Learn more about how to add or change the title tag, meta description, and keywords associated with each page in your BookingKoala website.

Last updated on 12 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are SEO details?
Ģ How to edit your site's metadata, including the title tag, meta description, and keywords for each page

What is SEO?
"SEO" stands for search engine optimization. This process aims to lead more traffic to your website via search engines like Google, Bing, etc. Adding a title tag, meta description, and keywords for each page correlates with how your site is indexed and ranked by these search engines.

Ģ Title tag: The title tag is displayed as the site's headline in search engine results and is also displayed as the page title at the top of your browser window.
Ģ Meta description: The description is displayed below the website's headline in search engine results and serves as a preview of what the page contains/offers to visitors.
Ģ Keywords: Adding keywords to your metadata may help rank your site and ensure the page is indexed with the correct search results.

Below is an example of the title and description of a website's page on Google.
[Image]

Your site's metadata must be relevant and updated regularly. If you use the website that comes with your BookingKoala account, you can use the website and theme builder to add this data to each page.

Adding and Editing Metadata
To begin adding or updating your site's metadata, please go to:
Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.
[Image]

Once inside the website and theme builder, click on the "Page" menu at the top center of the screen. Select "Manage Pages" from the drop-down menu.
[Image]

Click on the "three dots" icon to the right of each page name and select "SEO Basics".
[Image]

This will open a second section from the menu displaying the SEO Basics tab.
[Image]

584 Preview on Google shows how the page will look on a search engine results page.
585 The URL slug is the last part of a URL and refers to a specific page.
? For example, the slug in the example above is "gift-card".
586 Enter the page's title tag in the field below.
[Image]
587 Enter the page's meta description in the text box below.
588 Enter any keywords you would like associated with this page.
? Keywords are often short, common search phrases related to your business or website. Many online tools help with finding the best keywords for your page.
589 Toggle this option to "Yes" if you would like search engines to index (include) this page.

Finally, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of this section to update the metadata and SEO preferences for the page.

Once you are finished making any/all changes to the website, you should also click the "Save & Publish" button in the top right corner of the page. This will ensure that your changes will not be lost in case you navigate away from the editor.

Please note: It can several weeks for your site to be reindexed by search engines. Click here to learn more about how long it takes for Google and other search engines to update and how to reindex your site.



How to fix the "website is not secure"/"connection is not private" error
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-fix-the-not-secure-connection-is-not-private-website-error

How to fix the "website is not secure"/"connection is not private" error
Learn why your website is showing the "not secure" error or "connection not private" page and how to correct it.

Last updated on 13 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ Why the "not secure" or "connection is not private" error is displaying for your website
Ģ How to update your site's SSL certificate to secure the website and remove the error message

What is the "not secure"/"your connection is not private" error?
The " not secure "/' your connection is not private " website error varies depending on the browser, but usually contains one or more of the following elements:

Ģ A " Not Secure " tag is in the address box just before the domain name.
Ģ An exclamation point in the triangle icon by the address box or on the page.
Ģ The " https " part of the domain is crossed out or written in red
Ģ The page is blocked by a " Connection is not private " message

If your site is displaying the " not secure " error or has a " connection is not secure " page instead, the most common cause is an expired, inaccurate, or missing SSL certificate.  A Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate is part of a security protocol to authenticate your site, create a secure connection to protect your user's information, and prevent someone from creating a fake version of your site.

An invalid SSL certificate and the resulting issues normally occur after connecting a custom domain to your BookingKoala account. Click here to learn more about how to connect custom domains.

When a custom domain is connected and hosted by BookingKoala, the new server details may not match the original server that issues the site's SSL certificate. For the site to be secured, the details on the existing certification must be updated to match the current host.

How do I update my site's SSL certificate?
To fix this issue, please contact BookingKoala Support at support@bookingkoala.com so our developers can install/update the SSL certificate for your site. You do not need to request or purchase a SSL certificate from your domain host as BookingKoala provides this service for free.

When you email our team, please include the following details so we can help you more quickly:

Ģ Your BookingKoala account domain

? Ex: yourstorename.bookingkoala.com
Ģ Any custom domain(s) connected to your account

? Ex: yourstorename.com, bookings.yourstorename.com, www.yourstorename.com

As soon as we receive your request, we will forward it to our developers for processing. Please allow up to 48 hours for the SSL certificate to be updated.  Our team will follow up with you to confirm as soon as the installation is complete.



Buy a BookingKoala domain
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/buy-a-bookingkoala-domain

Buy a BookingKoala domain
Learn where to buy a BookingKoala domain and how to connect it to your account.

Last updated on 14 Nov, 2024

In this article, you will learn more about how to:

Ģ Buy a BookingKoala domain
Ģ Connect the domain to your BookingKoala account

Why would I purchase a custom domain?
There are many reasons why you may want to purchase a new domain for your BookingKoala account and website. After all, using the right domain name has a major impact on how customers find your website and access the services you offer.

If you are using the BookingKoala website, you may not want customers to see BookingKoala branding including the ".bookingkoala" part of your default account domain.

If you have a pre-existing website with embedded BookingKoala forms, you may want to create and connect a domain to hide/"mask" your default BookingKoala subdomain so users won't see "yourstorename.bookingkoala.com" when they log into their dashboard (hosted by BookingKoala) from your site (hosted elsewhere).

Or, if your business is rebranding , you may have purchased a new domain to reflect the new services or industries you are incorporating.

Whatever the case may be, you can connect and manage one or more custom domains for your BookingKoala account using the " Change My Domain " option from the Design Forms & Website section.

Purchasing a BookingKoala Domain
If you do not own a custom domain yet and would like to purchase one through BookingKoala, you can easily buy and connect the domain right from inside your account.

If you already own a domain that is hosted by another platform, click here to view instructions on how to connect it to your BookingKoala account.

Buy a Custom BookingKoala Domain

To buy a custom BookingKoala domain, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Change Your Domain

Your default primary domain will be listed under the " Domain Name " column. This is the BookingKoala subdomain that was generated when you first created your account.

If you would like to buy a new domain through BookingKoala, click the green " Buy New Domain " button in the top right corner of the page.

Type your desired domain name WITHOUT the "www." into the box at the top of the page. The bottom half of the page will display results and availability for that name, including alternative extensions .

To view additional extensions, click the blue " Load More " button.

Once you've decided which domain to select, click the green " Buy " button to the right of the name. This will take you to the Add Payment Information screen.

You can use your " Existing credit card " or select " New credit card " to add a new card for payment. Then, click the blue " Buy " button to complete your purchase.

Verify the Domain

Next, you'll need to verify your domain. Go back to the main Domain dashboard by clicking the grey " <- Domains " button at the top left side of the page.

You will see your recently purchased domain has been added to the list. Click the orange " Verify " button to verify the new domain.

This will bring you to a " Verify Domain " page. Click the blue " Verify " button.

You may see this red message in the top right corner of the page when you try to verify your domain.

There is no reason for alarm if so; it can take up to 12 hours for your domain verification process to be completed. Please wait and then check back again to try again. Once verified, the status will read as " Connected ".

If you are still seeing this error message after 12 hours, please contact our support team at support@bookingkoala.com so we can assist you.

Setting the Primary Domain

Once the domain has been verified, you can set it as your primary domain. This is important and ensures your system email and SMS notifications contain the domain you want customers to see.

To the right of the new domain, click " Options ", the " Make Primary ".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to make this your primary domain. Click " Yes " to continue.

Your new domain will now have the blue " Primary " label next to it.

Your new domain has now been successfully connected to your account! To view what customers will see when they type in the domain, click the eye icon /" View " button.

Click the blue " Copy Link " button and then paste it into a private/incognito browser to see what your customers see when they navigate to your website.

Next Steps
Once you have connected a new primary domain for your BookingKoala account and website, you may need to take a few additional steps to ensure your account will work as expected.

Update Your Form(s) Embed Codes

If you have an existing website that has BookingKoala forms embedded, you will need to update your forms' embed codes to the new domain instead of the original BookingKoala domain.

590 Check that your newly connected custom domain has been set as the primary domain for your BookingKoala account. If it is not, please follow the instructions in the previous section to complete this step.
591 Log out of your admin dashboard.
592 Type the new domain into the address bar in your web browser then add "/login" to the end.
? For example, if your custom domain is " demo2llc.store ", the login URL would be " demo2llc.store/login "
593 Enter your admin or staff credentials into the form and click "Log In".
594 Follow the rest of the steps from our guide on how to embed forms on an existing website. As long as you have logged in from your new domain, the embed codes will also contain the new domain.

Secure & Authenticate Your Website

Once you connect a new domain, your website's SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) certificate may need to be updated to reflect the change. A valid SSL certificate helps show customers that your website is authentic, secure, and owned by your business.

If your domain is no longer secure due to an expired or inaccurate SSL, you may see the following indicators:

Ģ A " Not Secure " tag is shown in the address box just before the domain name.
Ģ An exclamation point in the triangle icon by the address box or on the page.
Ģ The " https " part of the domain is crossed out or written in red
Ģ The page is blocked by a " Connection is not private " message

To fix this, please contact BookingKoala Support at support@bookingkoala.com so our developers can install/update the SSL certificate for your site.

When you email our team, please include the following details so we can help you more quickly:

Ģ Your BookingKoala account domain
? Ex: yourstorename.bookingkoala.com
Ģ Any custom domain(s) connected to your account
? Ex: yourstorename.com, bookings.yourstorename.com, www.yourstorename.com

As soon as we receive your request, we will forward it to our developers for processing. Please allow up to 48 hours for the SSL certificate to be updated. Our team will follow up with you to confirm as soon as the installation is complete.

Secure & Authenticate Your Emails
When you connect a new domain to your site, it may require you to update your site's DNS records to prevent your emails from going into spam as well as prevent email spoofing (when people use what appears to be your email address for illegitimate reasons). These cases can be addressed by adding or updating your DNS's SPF and CNAME files.

Add/Update an SPF Record

A Sender Policy Framework , or " SPF " for short, is an email validation standard designed to prevent email spoofing. To set this up, you will publish a TXT record to the DNS configuration of your domain. This process varies depending on which web host you use.

If your domain doesn't have an existing SPF record, you can publish a new TXT record in your DNS Records.

595 For the record type , select TXT ( SPF is a type of TXT record).
596 For the name, enter " @ " or leave it blank (this depends on your domain host).
597 For the value , enter " v=spf1 include:amazonses.com ~all "
597.1 If you would like to authenticate emails from multiple domains, you can enter each domain separated by a space
597.2 For example: " v=spf1 include:demo2llc.com include:amazonses.com ~all "

Once the record has been updated/added and saved, it can take up to 48 hours to update globally.

Configure Your DKIM Settings

If you are using a domain email address, you can configure your DNS settings to help with verifying your sender email address. This makes it less likely for the email to be marked as "spam". If you would like to set up your DKIM settings, please follow the steps below.

598 Email us at support@bookingkoala.com to let us know if you would like to generate a CNAME file so you can configure your DKIM.
599 One of our developers will generate the records and send you a .CSV file containing CNAME records.
600 Download and open the .CSV file.
601 Login to your domain's hosting dashboard and locate the section where you can edit your DNS.
602 Copy the DNS records from the .CSV file you downloaded and add them to your domain's DNS settings.
603 Click "Save" or "Update" (this will vary depending on your domain registrar).
604 Once the settings are populated, any further emails being sent out will not go into spam unless an email from your site is manually "spammed" by the client.

Please note: It normally takes anywhere from 4 to 6 hours up to 72 hours for the DKIM settings to become verified.



Terms & conditions checkbox
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/terms-conditions-checkbox

Terms & conditions checkbox
Learn how to enable and require customers and/or admin to agree to the booking terms & conditions prior to scheduling or requesting a service.

Last updated on 13 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What is the "terms & conditions" feature?
Ģ How to enable the terms & conditions feature
Ģ How to require customers and/or admin/staff to accept the terms & conditions before booking
Ģ How to check if the "Terms & Conditions" checkbox was checked or not checked

What is the booking form "Terms & Conditions" feature?
When enabled, the "Terms & Conditions" feature places a checkbox just above the "Save Booking" button on the booking forms.

This feature can be displayed to customers and/or the admin/staff. It is also possible to require customers and/or admin/staff to check the box and agree to the terms and conditions of your services before scheduling or requesting an appointment.

Ģ If the feature is required, users will see a red error message at the top of the page reminding them to accept the terms and conditions.
Ģ A red error message will also be displayed below the "Terms & Conditions" checkbox and text.

Once the user checks the "Terms & Conditions" box, they will be able to use the "Save Booking" button to submit the booking.

Once the booking has been saved, customers will see a green "Thank you for booking with us!" alert at the top of the page.

Enable Terms & Conditions
To enable, disable, or customize the "Terms & Conditions" feature for your booking form(s), you will first need to open the Website & Theme Builder.

Please go to:
Settings > Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.

Once the advanced theme builder has launched, go to the booking form on the ōBook Nowö page using the top center "Page" menu. Select an industry and form number if you have more than one, as different Terms & Conditions can be set up per form.

Scroll down to the ōTerms and Conditionsö section and click on the ōTerms and Conditionsö text to reveal an ōEditö button. Click ōEditö to open the ōTerms and Conditionsö menu from the left side of the page.

Ģ There is an option to ōShow / Hideö the ōTerms and Conditionsö checkbox.
Ģ There is also an option to ōEditö the text that appears by the checkbox if it is set to ōShowö.
Ģ Next, select which user(s) should see the ōTerms & Conditionsö feature ("Customers" and/or "Admin/Staff") Below, select which user(s) are required to accept the ōTerms & Conditionsö checkbox feature ("Customers" and/or "Admin/Staff").
Ģ There is also an option to ōEditö the ōError Messageö text which will display if the user forgets to accept the ōTerms and Conditionsö before submitting the booking.
Ģ The message will only be displayed to the user(s) who are required to accept the ōTerms & Conditionsö via this feature.
Ģ Finally, select which form(s) to apply these ōTerms and Conditionsö settings.
? Select ōJust this formö to only apply these terms to the current form you are editing.
? Select ōAll forms in the systemö to apply these terms to all forms and industries in the system.

Once you are finished making your selections from the "Terms & Conditions" side menu, click the blue "Save" Button at the bottom of the page.

Remember to click the blue "Save & Publish" button to push the changes live to your website or forms.

Terms & Conditions Logs
If customers are not required to accept the booking "Terms & Conditions", you can still check if they accepted the terms before submitting their booking.

First, please go to:
Logs > System Logs

Search for the job "New Booking" log by using the filters along the top of the section, or searching the customer's name, email address, phone number, address, or booking ID in the search bar.

Once the log has been located, click the eye icon/"View" button to view the log's details.

At the bottom of the log details section, there will be a line called "Terms & Conditions (checkbox)".

Ģ If the data to the right of this says "Checked", the user accepted the terms and conditions using the "Terms & Conditions" checkbox before submitting the booking.
Ģ If the data to the right of this says "Unchecked", the user declined to check the "Terms & Conditions" checkbox before booking.



Change the layout of the "Customer Details" and address section
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/change-the-layout-of-the-customer-details-and-address-section

Change the layout of the "Customer Details" and address section
Learn how to change the layout and edit the appearance of the "Customer Details" section on your booking form(s).

Last updated on 16 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is the "Customer Details" section?
Ģ How to go to change the layout of the "Customer Details" contact info and address section on the booking form
Ģ How to edit the name and placeholder text for the customer contact info and address fields

What is the "Customer Details" section?
The "Customer Details" section is located on the booking form and is used to collect the customer's name, contact information, and address as part of the booking process.

Edit the Customer Details Section
To change the appearance of the "Customer Details" section, please go to: Settings > Design Forms and Website > Website Builder and Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.

Click on the "Page" menu at the top center of the screen and select the "Book Now" page.

Next, scroll down to the Customer Details section.

Change the Customer Details Layout & Address Format To change the layout and address format, click the Customer Details section to reveal a ōDesignö button near the top left corner of the section.

Click on the Design button to reveal a menu on the left side of the page.

There are four layouts available to choose from:
Ģ Customer details and the short address format as a single section
Ģ Customer details and the long address format as a single section
Ģ Customer details and the short address format as separate sections
Ģ Customer details and the long address format as separate sections

Customer details and the short address format as a single sectionThe customer contact information and short-format address fields are displayed as a single section.
The short-format address consists of asingle line for the address with a second field for an optional unit/apartment/floor number.

Customer details and the long address format as a single sectionThe customer contact information and long-format address fields are displayed as a single section.
The long-format address consists ofmultiple fields for each aspect of the address:
Ģ Address
Ģ Apt. No.
Ģ City
Ģ State
Ģ Zipcode/Postal code

Customer details and the short address format as separate sections The customer contact information and short-format address fields are displayed as separate sections: "Customer Details" and "Address Details".
This allows the admin to place the sections separately from each other when using the "Rearrange" button.
The short-format address section consists of a single line for the address with a second field for an optional unit/apartment/floor number.

Customer details and the long address format as separate sections The customer contact information and long-format address fields are displayed as separate sections: "Customer Details" and "Address Details".
This option also the admin to place the sections separately from each other when using the "Rearrange" button.
The long-format address consists ofmultiple fields for each aspect of the address:
Ģ Address
Ģ Apt. No.
Ģ City
Ģ State
Ģ Zipcode/Postal code

Final Steps After you have clicked "Select This Layout", the text will change to "Selected". You can now close out the side menu and proceed with any other changes you'd like to make.

Once you are finished editing the booking form, please remember to click the blue "Save & Publish" button to push the update live to your site and booking form.



Edit the payment details pages
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-payment-details-pages

Edit the payment details pages
Learn how to edit and set up your customer payment details pages in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 31 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ Where to locate the payment details pages in the website builder
Ģ How to edit the Reauth Card page
Ģ How to edit the Add Payment page
Ģ How to edit the Invoice page
Ģ How to edit the Invoice Payment page
Ģ How to edit the Invoice Thank You page

Website Builder Payment Details Pages
Whenever you send a customer a new invoice, an invoice payment link, or a card payment link, they are directed to one of several pages located on your BookingKoala website. Click here to learn how to create a new invoice.

To modify the appearance and some of the features used on these pages, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme.

Next, click on the top center Pages menu and select the Payment Details option. The pages listed below this section represent the following steps of the customer payment process.

Ģ Reauth Card page - This page is displayed when the 3DS option is enabled on your account in store option settings and a card payment link is sent to the customer to reauthorize an existing card or add a new card as detailed in this article. Click here to learn how to edit the customer Reauth Card page.
Ģ Add Payment - This page is displayed whenever a customer adds a new card to the Your Info & Billing section as shown in this article. Click here to learn how to edit the customer Add Payment page.
Ģ Invoice page - This page displays the customer's invoice and an optional contract pop-up to collect and verify the customer's signature upon reviewing and paying the invoice. This page is displayed when a customer is sent an invoice link as detailed in this article. Click here to learn how to edit the customer Invoice page.
Ģ Invoice Payment page - This page is displayed when the customer clicks the Pay Invoice button at the bottom of their invoice. Click here to learn how to edit the customer Invoice Payment page.
Ģ Invoice Thank You page - This page is displayed once the customer has successfully paid their invoice on your website. Click here to learn how to edit the customer Invoice Thank You page.



Edit the customer dashboard pages
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-dashboard-pages

Edit the customer dashboard pages
Learn how to edit and set up your customer dashboard pages in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ Where to locate the customer dashboard pages in the website builder
Ģ How to edit the customer Dashboard page
Ģ How to edit the customer Edit Personal Details page
Ģ How to edit the customer Your Info & Billing page
Ģ How to edit the customer My Drive page
Ģ How to edit the customer Gift Cards page
Ģ How to edit the customer Notifications page

Website Builder Customer Dashboard Pages
Whenever you book or create a customer profile in BookingKoala, that customer gains access to a customer dashboard on your website.

To modify the appearance and enable/disable some of the features used on these pages, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder.  To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Next, click on the top center Pages menu and select the Customer Dashboard Pages option.  The pages listed below this section represent the following areas of the customer profile:

Ģ Dashboard - This page allows customers to view their upcoming and past appointments, edit their personal information, update their passwords, view and edit their billing information, and view declined payments for past bookings. Click here to learn how to edit the customers' Dashboard page.
Ģ Edit Personal Details - This page allows customers to add a profile photo, edit their name, edit/add email addresses, edit/add phone numbers, and add/edit other contacts for their profile. Click here to learn how to edit the customers' personal details page.
Ģ Your Info & Billing - This page allows customers to edit their addresses, add/edit their cards on file, and view/download invoices and receipts for their bookings and gift card purchases. Click here to learn how to edit the Your Info & Billing page for customers.
Ģ My Drive - If enabled, the customer My Drive page allows customers to view files uploaded to their drive and upload files to share with the merchant and staff. Click here to learn how to edit the customer My Drive page.
Ģ Gift Cards - This page displays all gift cards that have been sent and received by the customer.  Click here to learn how to edit the customer Gift Cards page. Click here to learn how to edit the customer Gift Cards page.
Ģ Notifications - This page allows customers to enable or disable email and SMS notifications for their profile. Click here to learn how to edit the customer Notifications page.



Edit the customer invoice payment page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-invoice-payment-page

Edit the customer invoice payment page
Learn how to edit and set up your customer invoice payment page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to edit the Invoice Payment page

Getting Started
The Invoice Payment page is displayed when the customer clicks the Pay Invoice button at the bottom of their invoice.

To modify the appearance of this page, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Invoice Payment Page
To edit this page, select the top center Page menu, select Payment Details , and click on Invoice Payment.

The right side of the page will display the payment summary section for the customer. To edit this section, click on each label to reveal the Edit button.

On the main section of the page, the page title and description can be edited, shown, or hidden by clicking on the text.

Below, there are several different sections depending on the payment being made.

The topmost section is only displayed if Stripe is your payment processor and you have enabled Stripe for multiple locations . In this case, the customer will select which location they are adding a card for prior to entering their card information.

The next section is displayed if the customer has a card on file already and selects the Existing Credit Card option from the invoice form.

In case you use the authorized.net payment gateway or if you have enabled the option " Do you want to add billing address with the card? " under the store option settings of the admin payment processor section (Settings > General > Store Options > Admin) , an address section will appear with the payment fields.

The following section is displayed if the customer does not already have a card on file or selects the New Credit Card option from the invoice form.

At the bottom of the page, there is a Back button to direct the client back to their invoice, and a Pay Now button to submit their payment. The Pay Now button is linked to the Invoice Thank You page discussed in the following section.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the " Save " button to save your changes to the backend, or " Save & Publish " to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the customer invoice thank you page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-invoice-thank-you-page

Edit the customer invoice thank you page
Learn how to edit and set up your customer invoice thank you page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to edit the Invoice Thank You page

Getting Started
The customer Invoice Thank You page is displayed after the customer submits payment by clicking the Pay Now button on the Invoice Payment page.

To modify the appearance of this page, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme.

Edit the Invoice Thank You Page
To edit this page, select the top center Page menu, select Payment Details, and click on Invoice Thank You.

The Thank You page contains several optional elements that can be shown, hidden, or edited depending on your preference. To make changes, click each element to reveal the Edit buttons.

There is an optional button at the bottom of the page that when shown is linked to the home page of your website. This can be modified and switched to any other page such as the Book Now page.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the "Save" button to save your changes to the backend, or "Save & Publish" to push your changes live to your site.



Set up the default invoice template
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-invoice-page

Set up the default invoice template
Learn how to edit and set up your customer invoice page/template in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 20 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How to edit the Invoice template via the customer invoice page

Getting Started
The customer Invoice page displays the customer's invoice and an optional contract pop-up to collect and verify the customer's signature upon reviewing and paying the invoice.  This page is displayed when a customer is sent an invoice link as detailed in this article.

To modify the appearance and features used on this page, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder.  To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Invoice Template
To edit the Invoice page, select the top center Page menu, select Payment Details , and click on Invoice.

To add a logo to the invoice, click on the Your Logo text in the top left corner of the invoice to reveal the Edit button.  Optionally, the logo can be clickable and redirect users to a specific page on your website.

The topmost section of the invoice contains dynamic shortcodes that display your business's store name and support email .  Like other elements, these can be edited by clicking on the text to reveal the edit button.

Other sections, like the company address , invoice number, issued date, due date, and billed-to sections, can be shown or hidden depending on what you would like customers to see.

Below, two different tables represent the type of details displayed for each invoice.  The topmost table is used in the case of creating a custom invoice with customer table headers.

To modify this section, click on the table to reveal the Edit , Add Row , Add Column , and Rearrange buttons.  Use the trash can icon to delete any rows or columns that you do not want to use.

It is also possible to add multiple tables for the custom invoice by clicking on the topmost table to reveal the Add Table button.  Once more than one table has been added, a Rearrange button will appear allowing you to modify the order of the tables as they are displayed on custom invoices.

The table below the custom table(s) is used for invoices that are generated from bookings . The content of this table varies from merchant to merchant and depends upon the parameters selected when creating the booking invoice as detailed in this article.  Only the Tip text can be edited from the website builder.

Below the custom and from booking tables are options for the subtotal , discount , and total tax . These can be edited or removed based on your preference.  The total amount text can also be edited.

Below this section is the note section.  This section appears as a text box to the admin and allows them to add an optional note for the customer at the bottom of the invoice. Click on the note box to reveal the edit option to alter the title of this section.

Another optional feature is the customer contract pop-up .  This section allows you to create a pop-up that displays

This option can be enabled on the invoice from the contract popup settings when you answer " Yes " to " Do you want to attach a signature to the invoice PDF? " by clicking on the section and selecting Edit.

If you want the contract to pop up before the customer pays the invoice, select Yes to the topmost question.  From here, you can decide if you'd like to collect a signature from the pop-up, if you would like the customer to authenticate their signature by entering a code, and if the signature will be attached to the invoice PDF.

Use the blue Preview button to view what the contract pop-up will look like based on your answers to each setting.

Below the Pay Invoice button, you will see a preview of the log(s) the customer will see on the invoice once they have completed the payment process.

To edit the log sections, click to reveal the Edit button, then click Edit to modify the section titles.

Along the upper right side of the invoice, you can view the payment summary section.  This section displays the payment options that you have enabled during the invoice creation process as detailed in this article.

If you have enabled the partial/advance payment option, customers can select whether they are paying the full invoice or the advance portion.  You can edit these labels by clicking on the section to reveal the Edit button.

If you have enabled the customer tip payment option, the customer will see an Add Tip section just above the payment summary.  The text in this section can also be edited using the Edit option.

Finally, the customer's invoice will display a summary of the charge.  Each of these labels can be edited by clicking on the label and selecting the Edit button.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please click the " Save " button to save your changes to the backend, or " Save & Publish " to push your changes live to your default invoice template.



Edit the reauth card page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-reauth-card-page

Edit the reauth card page
Learn how to edit and set up your customer reauth page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to edit the Reauth Card page

Getting Started
The customer Reauth Card page is displayed when the 3DS option is enabled on your account in store option settings and a card payment link is sent to the customer to reauthorize an existing card or add a new card as detailed in this article.

To modify the appearance of this page, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme.

Edit the Reauth Card Page
As mentioned above, the Reauth Card page is displayed when the 3DS option is enabled on your account in store option settings and a card payment link is sent to the customer to reauthorize an existing card or add a new card.

To edit this page, select the top center Page menu, select Payment Details, and click on Reauth Card.

There are two sections on this page: the reauthorization form on the top and the credit card authentication form for new credit cards below.

Edit the Reauthorization Form

To edit the credit card reauthorization form, click on the title, the description, or the "Authorize Card" button to reveal the edit button.

There are two dynamic values used in the title and description: one for the CVV/CVC and one for the add new card link. In this case, wherever you place {{.cvvText}}, the text will be dynamically generated based on your payment processor. For example, "CVC" will be used for Stripe, and "CVV" will be used for the rest. Use {{.newCardText}} to display the "add new card" link.

You can also decide which page the "Authorize Card" button redirects users to after successful completion of the card authorization.

Edit the New Card Authentication Form

The second half of the page displays the authentication form for new credit cards.

There is also a dynamic value used in the description to display the CVC/CVV wherever you place {{.cvvText}}.

In case you use the authorized.net payment gateway or if you have enabled the option "Do you want to add billing address with the card?" under the store option settings of the admin payment processor section (Settings > General > Store Options > Admin), an address section will appear with the payment fields.

Like above, you can also decide which page the "Authorize Card" button redirects users to after successful completion of the card authentication.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the "Save" button to save your changes to the backend, or "Save & Publish" to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the customer dashboard page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-dashboard-page

Edit the customer dashboard page
Learn how to edit and set up your customers' dashboard page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 06 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to locate the customer dashboard pages in the website builder
Ģ How to edit the customer Dashboard page

Getting Started
Whenever you book or create a customer profile in BookingKoala, that customer gains access to a customer dashboard on your website.

To modify the appearance and enable/disable some of the features used on these pages, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Customer Dashboard Page
To edit the customer dashboard page, click on the top center Pages menu, select Customer Dashboard Pages, and click on the Dashboard page.

Background Color & Padding

To change the background color of the customer dashboard, click on the background and select the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner of the section.

Click the box to the right of where it says Background color and use the color popup to select a color.

To adjust the padding on each side of the customer dashboard, enter a number for the number of pixels you would like between the edge of the page and the page content.

Customer Details Box Colors, Font & Buttons

To edit the background color of the customer details box, click the background or element number on the upper right corner of the box and then select the Edit button.

Click the box to the right of where it says Background color and use the color popup to select a color.

The text color and font size within this section can also be changed by clicking on the customer name, email address, and/or phone number and selecting another color from the color popup and font size menu.

The button color, style, and text content can be altered by clicking on a button and selecting the Edit button that appears.

Ģ Click on the Text Settings section to alter the text displayed on the button.
Ģ Click on the Style Settings section to alter the colors of the button's background, border, text color, and font size.
Ģ Click on the Design button to change the button's shape/style.

Text and buttons in other sections of the customer dashboard can be edited in the same manner.

If the customer has upcoming appointments, previous appointments, canceled appointments, and/or declined payments, they will see the following section on their dashboard.

To edit the text, colors, and buttons for these sections, click anywhere within the section to reveal the Edit button in the top left corner of the section.

Each tab has its own settings and style tabs which control the text color, font size, button color, button style, and tab colors.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the "Save" button to save your changes to the backend, or "Save & Publish" to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the customer personal details page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-personal-details-page

Edit the customer personal details page
Learn how to edit and set up your customers' Edit Personal Details page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to locate the customer dashboard pages in the website builder
Ģ How to edit the customer Edit Personal Details page

Getting Started
Whenever you book or create a customer profile in BookingKoala, that customer gains access to a customer dashboard on your website.

To modify the appearance and enable/disable some of the features used on these pages, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Customer Edit Personal Details Page
To edit the customer Edit Personal Details page, click on the top center Pages menu, select Customer Dashboard Pages, and click on the Edit Personal Details page.

Background Color & Padding

To change the background color of the customer Edit Personal Details page, click on the background and select the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner of the section.

Click the box to the right where it says Background color and use the color popup to select a color.

To adjust the padding on each side of the customer details page, enter a number for the number of pixels you would like between the edge of the page and the page content.

Edit Profile Box Colors, Font & Buttons

To edit the background color of the customer details box, click the background or element number on the upper right corner of the box and then select the Edit button.

Click the box to the right of where it says Background color and use the color popup to select a color. To change the border color, click the box to the right of where it says Border color and use the color popup to select a color. The Border width can be changed by adjusting the number in the field to the right.

Text can be edited by clicking on the text field and selecting the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner of that segment.

Ģ Click on the Text Settings section to alter the text displayed within the segment.
Ģ Click on the Style Settings section to alter the colors of the text, button background, border, and label font size.

The button color, style, and text content of the buttons along the bottom of this section can is altered by clicking on a button and selecting the Edit button that appears.

Ģ Click on the Text Settings section to alter the text displayed on the button.
Ģ Click on the Style Settings section to alter the colors of the button's background, border, text color, and font size.
Ģ Click on the Design button to change the button's shape/style.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the "Save" button to save your changes to the backend, or "Save & Publish" to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the customer info and billing page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-info-and-billing-page

Edit the customer info and billing page
Learn how to edit and set up your customers' Your Info & Billing page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 06 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to locate the customer dashboard pages in the website builder
Ģ How to edit the customer Your Info & Billing page

Getting Started
Whenever you book or create a customer profile in BookingKoala, that customer gains access to a customer dashboard on your website.

To modify the appearance and enable/disable some of the features used on these pages, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Customer Your Info & Billing Page
To edit the customer Your Info & Billing page, click on the top center Pages menu, select Customer Dashboard Pages, and click on the Your Info & Billing page.

Background Color and Padding

To change the background color of the customer Your Info & Billing page, click on the background and select the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner of the section.

Click the box to the right where it says Background color and use the color popup to select a color.

To adjust the padding on each side of the customer details page, enter a number for the number of pixels you would like between the edge of the page and the page content.

Edit Customer Details Box Colors, Font & Buttons

To edit the background color of the customer details box, click the background or element number on the upper right corner of the box and then select the Edit button.

The text color and font size within this section can also be changed by clicking on the customer name, email address, and/or phone number and selecting another color from the color popup and font size menu.

The button color, style, and text content can be altered by clicking on a button and selecting the Edit button that appears.

Ģ Click on the Text Settings section to alter the text displayed on the button.
Ģ Click on the Style Settings section to alter the colors of the button's background, border, text color, and font size.
Ģ Click on the Design button to change the button's shape/style.

Address Details Font, Colors, and Buttons

The Address Details section has a title and tooltip that can be edited by clicking on the text to reveal the white Edit button.

The address boxes themselves can be edited to have a different border color and width, text size and color, and border-radius.

The Add New Address button can be modified by clicking on the Edit button and using the text settings, style settings, and design options.

Billing Information Font, Colors, and Buttons

The Billing Information section contains the same options to edit the fonts, colors, and buttons used when displaying customers' cards on file.

Invoices Font, Colors, and Buttons

Likewise, the same options are available to edit the fonts, colors, and buttons used to display the customer's invoices in the Invoices section.

To switch to editing the Gift Card Receipt section, click on the Gift Card Receipt button below the Settings tab in the left side menu.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the "Save" button to save your changes to the backend, or "Save & Publish" to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the customer my drive page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-my-drive-page

Edit the customer my drive page
Learn how to edit and set up your customers' My Drive page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to locate the customer dashboard pages in the website builder
Ģ How to edit the customer My Drive page

Getting Started
Whenever you book or create a customer profile in BookingKoala, that customer gains access to a customer dashboard on your website.

To modify the appearance and enable/disable some of the features used on these pages, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Customer My Drive Page
To edit the customer My Drive page, click on the top center Pages menu, select Customer Dashboard Pages, and click on the My Drive page.

Background Color and Padding

To change the background color of the customer's My Drive page, click on the background and select the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner of the section.

Click the box to the right where it says Background color and use the color popup to select a color.

To adjust the padding on each side of the My Drive page, enter a number for the number of pixels you would like between the edge of the page and the page content.

Edit My Drive Box Colors, Font & Buttons

To edit the background color of the My Drive box, click the background or element number on the upper right corner of the box and then select the Edit button.

Click the box to the right of where it says Background color and use the color popup to select a color. To change the border color, click the box to the right of where it says Border color and use the color popup to select a color. The Border width can be changed by adjusting the number in the field to the right.

Text can be edited by clicking on the text field and selecting the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner of that segment.
Ģ Click on the Text Settings section to alter the text displayed within the segment.
Ģ Click on the Style Settings section to alter the colors of the text, button background, border, and label font size.

Likewise, the description and placeholder text for the Browse and Save and Note sections can be altered.

The button color, style, and text content of the buttons along the bottom of this section can be altered by clicking on a button and selecting the Edit button that appears.
Ģ Click on the Text Settings section to alter the text displayed on the button.
Ģ Click on the Style Settings section to alter the colors of the button's background, border, text color, and font size.
Ģ Click on the Design button to change the button's shape/style.

Edit the My Files Table Content, Text, and Colors

Below the upload file section, the My Files section shows all files that have been uploaded to the My Drive. You can edit the table colors, text content, and button colors by clicking anywhere on the table to reveal the Edit button in the upper left corner of the section.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the "Save" button to save your changes to the backend, or "Save & Publish" to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the customer notifications page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-notifications-page

Edit the customer notifications page
Learn how to edit and set up your customers' Notifications page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to locate the customer dashboard pages in the website builder
Ģ How to edit the customer Notifications page

Getting Started
Whenever you book or create a customer profile in BookingKoala, that customer gains access to a customer dashboard on your website.

To modify the appearance and enable/disable some of the features used on these pages, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Customer Notifications Page
To edit the customer notifications page, click on the top center Pages menu, select Customer Dashboard Pages, and click on the Notifications page.

To edit the title of this section, click on Email Notifications or SMS Notifications to reveal the white Edit button.

To edit the tooltips and enable/disable buttons for the notification types, click the notification name and select the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the "Save" button to save your changes to the backend, or "Save & Publish" to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the customer gift cards page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-gift-cards-page

Edit the customer gift cards page
Learn how to edit and set up your customers' Gift Cards page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to locate the customer dashboard pages in the website builder
Ģ How to edit the customer Gift Cards page

Getting Started
Whenever you book or create a customer profile in BookingKoala, that customer gains access to a customer dashboard on your website.

To modify the appearance and enable/disable some of the features used on these pages, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Customer Gift Cards Page
To edit the customer gift cards page, click on the top center Pages menu, select Customer Dashboard Pages , and click on the Gift Cards page.

Background Color and Padding

To change the background color of the customer Gift Cards page, click on the background and select the white Edit button that appears in the top left corner of the section.

Click the box to the right where it says Background color and use the color popup to select a color.

To adjust the padding on each side of the customer details page, enter a number for the number of pixels you would like between the edge of the page and the page content.

Edit Customer Details Box Colors, Font & Buttons

To edit the background color of the customer details box, click the background or element number on the upper right corner of the box and then select the Edit button .

The text color and font size within this section can also be changed by clicking on the customer name , email address , and/or phone number and selecting another color from the color popup and font size menu.

The button color , style , and text content can be altered by clicking on a button and selecting the Edit button that appears.

Ģ Click on the Text Settings section to alter the text displayed on the button.
Ģ Click on the Style Settings section to alter the colors of the button's background, border, text color, and font size.
Ģ Click on the Design button to change the button's shape/style.

Edit the Received Gift Cards Table

To edit the title of this section, click on Received Gift Cards to reveal the white Edit button.

The table can be modified by clicking anywhere on the table to reveal the Edit button in the top left corner of this section.

The Previous/Next buttons can also be edited.

Edit the Sent Gift Cards Table

The Sent Gift Cards table can be edited in the same manner as the Received Gift Cards table.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the " Save " button to save your changes to the backend, or " Save & Publish " to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the customer add payment page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-customer-add-payment-page

Edit the customer add payment page
Learn how to edit and set up your customer add payment page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to edit the Add Payment page

Getting Started
The Add Payment page is displayed when a customer clicks the "Add New Card" button on the "Your Info & Billing" page in the customer dashboard.

To modify the appearance of this page, you must access the BookingKoala Website & Theme Builder. To do so, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Edit the Invoice Payment Page
To edit this page, select the top center Page menu, select Payment Details, and click on Add Payment.

The topmost section displays the page title which can be edited, shown, or hidden by clicking on the text.

The next section is only displayed if Stripe is your payment processor and you have enabled Stripe for multiple locations. In this case, the customer will select which location they are adding a card for prior to entering their card information.

Below is the Add a New Card field which can have the text edited and color changed.

The following options are displayed if you have selected "Give Options" for the setting, "When a customer adds a card, do you want to give them options or add the card to all "cash/check" bookings?" This setting is located under: Settings > General > Store Options > Customer > General

To change the questions and choices, click on the text and select the Edit button that appears on the top left corner of the section.

At the bottom of the page, there is a Cancel button to direct the client back to their billing section, and an Add Card button to save their new payment method. The Add Card button also redirects back to the customer dashboard's Your Info & Billing page.

Save & Publish
When you are finished making edits to your page, please be sure to click the "Save" button to save your changes to the backend, or "Save & Publish" to push your changes live to your site.



Edit the booking form booking summary
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-booking-form-booking-summary

Edit the booking form booking summary
Learn how to manage the appearance of the booking summary in the booking form.

Last updated on 29 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to go to edit the booking summary
Ģ How to show or hide booking summary aspects
Ģ How to display extras with and without pricing
Ģ How to display exclude parameters with and without pricing

The Booking Summary
The booking form's booking summary is what you and your customers see when filling out the form. It summarizes the basic details of the booking as well as the pricing for the service.

The booking summary's appearance can be edited in the website and theme builder. To begin, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Once you are inside the website builder, click on the top center Page menu and select the Book Now page.

Scroll down the page until you see the Booking Summary on the right side of the page.

Make the Booking Summary Scroll
To make the booking summary scroll on the customer end, please click here (link to another article).

Remove "Powered by BookingKoala" Branding
If you are a Growing or Premium subscriber, you can remove the BookingKoala branding from the booking summary. Please click here for our guide.

Show or Hide Booking Summary Labels
To show or hide the booking summary labels, click on the booking summary above the labels and select the Edit button. Then, scroll down the left side menu and click the Show/Hide buttons as needed.

Show or Hide the Price of Extras in the Booking Summary
Once you click to Edit the Booking Summary, the left-side menu will appear with options to adjust the Settings. Scroll down until you locate the "Choose layout" sections just below the Extras label.

Click on whichever option you prefer: extras without pricing, or extras with pricing.

Show or Hide the Price of Exclusions in the Booking Summary
Similarly, if you scroll down until you locate the "Choose layout" sections just below the Excludes label, you can decide whether you would like to display your exclusion parameters with or without pricing.

Show or Hide the Professionals Label
Continue to scroll down the left side menu and you will find the option to Show or Hide the "Professionals" label. This label shows how many service providers are scheduled to do the job.

In addition to the show/hide option, there is a Control Visibility button. The Control Visibility button opens a pop-up that allows you to decide which parties can see this information: customers, admin/staff, or both.

Show or Hide the Length Label
Similarly, the Length label can be shown or hidden and also has a Control Visibility button to manage which parties can see the booking time length.

Change the Booking Summary Font/Colors
To change the colors, font weight, and font size of the Booking Summary, click on the Style tab at the top of the left-side menu.

Rearrange the Order of the Booking Summary
To rearrange the order of the labels in the Booking Summary, click the Rearrange tab at the top of the left-side menu, or click the Rearrange button to open the Rearrange tab.

Then, drag and drop the labels into the desired order and click the blue "Save" button.

Edit the "Total" Summary
Just like the body of the main booking summary, you also can modify the "Total" section of the Booking Summary.

Just like the main Booking Summary, there are three tabs that control the Total Summary.



Edit the "Popular Questions"/FAQs section
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-faqs-section-on-the-booking-page

Edit the "Popular Questions"/FAQs section
Learn how to edit the FAQs/popular questions section on the Book Now page.

Last updated on 25 Nov, 2024

In this article, you will learn how to:
Ģ Edit the FAQs/popular questions section on the booking/"Get a quote" page
Ģ Edit the dynamic FAQs section

Editing the Popular Questions/FAQs Section on the Booking and Lead Form
One of the optional components on the booking form or "Book Now" page is the FAQs/popular questions section. This section can help customers better understand your business and your services. Do you get a lot of common questions about your services? If so, this is the perfect place to address those questions while the customer looks at your pricing and availability.

To edit the FAQs section, you must first open the Website and Theme Builder. To do so, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Next, click the orange "Customize Theme" button at the center of the page.

Once the website and theme builder have launched, click on the top-center Page menu and select the "Book Now" page. This is the default name of the booking form page.

Next, scroll down the Book Now page until you locate the FAQs section along the right side of the page. Click on the element number on the top right corner of the section to reveal the Edit button. Click Edit to launch the section editor.

From here, you can edit or delete existing questions, add new questions, and change the priority order of the questions in this section.

Ģ To edit a question, click on the down arrow to reveal the editable fields for the question and answer.
Ģ To delete a question, click on the trash can icon and select "Yes" in the following pop-up.
Ģ To add a new question, click on the blue "Add New" button at the bottom of the side menu and then enter a question and answer into the fields.
Ģ To change the priority order of the questions, drag and drop a question by holding the sandwich icon and then click the green "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the side menu.

Once you are finished making your changes, you can click the red X icon to close the side menu. Don't forget to click the Save & Publish button in the top right corner of the page so your changes are pushed live to your booking form.

Editing the Dynamic FAQs Section
If you have added a "FAQs" section from the section menu, there is a separate section dedicated to creating a more complex question-and-answer page. To add this section to your BookingKoala website, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Select whichever page you would like to add the FAQ section to from the top-center Page menu.
Ģ If you'd like to create a designated FAQs page, click here to learn how to add a new page to your site.
Ģ Click here to learn how to add a new page to your header or footer.

Add the FAQ Section To add the FAQ section to your page, hover your cursor between two sections (such as the header and footer) and click the "Add Section" button that appears.

Scroll down the left side menu that appears and click on where it says "FAQ". Then click "Add this section".

Once the FAQ section is added, you will see four sections each with several questions and answers listed for each section.

Edit the FAQ Section To edit the dynamic FAQs content, please visit: Settings > Design Forms & Website > FAQ

To edit an existing FAQ, select "Options" under the Actions column, and select "Edit".

From here, you can do the following:
605 Edit the question field.
606 Edit the answer field.
607 Select an existing category.
608 Add a new category.
609 Save your changes.
610 Return to the previous screen.
611 Delete this FAQ entirely.

To add a new FAQ, go to: FAQs > Add FAQ

Be sure to click the "Save" button at the bottom of the page once you have finished creating your FAQ.

You can manage FAQ categories by going to: FAQs > Categories

Here you can Edit or Delete a category by selecting "Options" under the Actions column.

To change the order in which your FAQs appear in the dynamic FAQs section, go to: FAQs > Organize FAQs

Drag and drop the questions into whatever order works best, then click the "Update Order" button at the bottom of the page.



Edit the booking form text and sections
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-the-booking-form-text-and-sections

Edit the booking form text and sections
Learn how to modify the text and format the sections of your booking form.

Last updated on 30 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to go to edit the text and section layout of the booking form
Ģ How to change the design of the Customer Details section
Ģ How to edit to appearance of buttons
Ģ How to edit the appearance of the booking calendar
Ģ How to enable/disable certain sections of the booking form
Ģ How to add a new section above or below the booking form
Ģ How to add a custom section to the booking form

Editing the Booking Form Text and Sections
The booking form's text and sections can be edited in the Website and Theme Builder. To begin, please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Once you are insight the website builder, click on the top center Page menu and select the Book Now page.

Next, select whether you would like to edit the desktop version of your booking form, or the mobile version. Please note that these two version of the site are edited separately.

Edit the Booking Form Text
To edit any of the headers or text on the booking form, scroll down to that section and click on the text. Two buttons will appear. One button will be to Edit and the other is to Hide/Show.

Once you click Edit, a pop-up will appear that allows you to change the text, add formatting, and adjust the style. Text in the text box can be styled by highlighting it with your cursor and selecting a font, color, format, etc.

Please note that some text, such as the labels in the Customer Details section, cannot be formatted at this time. However, most text fields include a Style Settings section in the pop-up that controls the font color and size.

Change the Design of the Customer Details Section
The Customer Details section is one of the sections on the booking form that has a Design button. This button is used to choose the layout of the customer detail fields. There are 4 options to pick from:

Ģ Layout 1 - Customer and address details are displayed as a single section along with a single address field.
Ģ Layout 2 - Customer and address details are displayed as a single section along with multiple address fields (city, state & zip code).
Ģ Layout 3 - Customer and address details are displayed in two different sections. The address section has a single address field.
Ģ Layout 4 - Customer and address details are displayed in two different sections. The address section has multiple address fields (city, state & zip code).

Please Note: the fields in which the customer's first name, last name, email address(es), and phone number(s) cannot be deleted; however, the secondary email address and phone number fields can be disabled from the front end by going to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Customer tab > Bookings section

Select the "Yes" option for the question "Would you like to disable the secondary email address and phone number on the booking form?".

Formatting Buttons on the Booking Form
Most buttons on the booking form can be modified in some way, whether it is the text, color, or style. To edit a button, click anywhere on the button to reveal the Edit button. Once you click edit, there will be a Text Settings and a Style Settings section that allows you to edit the text and style.

Some edit buttons control the formatting of multiple buttons on the page. For example, the plus/minus buttons for the exclusion parameters and extras will display the same colors and formatting.

Editing the Booking Calendar
To edit the appearance of the booking calendar, click anywhere on the calendar to reveal the Edit button. Click Edit and a Settings popup will open with options to modify almost every aspect of the calendar.

Enable/Disable Optional Sections of the Booking Form
There are several optional sections towards the bottom of the booking form that can be enabled or disabled depending on your preference.

Ģ Extras section
Ģ Exclusion parameters section
Ģ Key Information & Job Notes section
Ģ Special Notes Or Instructions section
Ģ Discount/Gift Card/Referral section
Ģ Tips section
Ģ Parking section
Ģ Reminders section

These sections will have an Enabled/Disabled button near the top right corner of the section. If a section is disabled, any existing bookings that used that section will remain the same, however, all new bookings will have it hidden.

How to Add Another Section to the Booking Form
There are two ways to go about adding a new section to the booking form. The first is to add a new section through the website builder which will appear before or after the booking form. To do so, simply scroll to the top or bottom of the booking form and click on the blue "Add Section" button that appears.

This will open the Add Section side menu where you can click to add one of the many options.

If you are looking to add a new section within the booking form itself, this can be done by adding a custom section. Custom sections are extremely versatile and allow you to create priced or non-priced questions or statements on the booking form.

Custom sections are set up under:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Custom Section

Click here to learn how to set up one or more custom sections for your form.



Add a logo
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-logo

Add a logo
Learn how to add your store's logo to your BookingKoala account and forms/website.

Last updated on 07 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to update the logo on the admin panel
Ģ How to update the logo on the forms and website

Add a Logo to the Admin Panel
You can add a custom logo to the admin and staff dashboard to showcase your brand.

To do this, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General tab > Store Info section

Click on the blue "Browse" button to select a file. The image size should not be more than 225 by 50 pixels.

Once you have selected a file and uploaded it to your BookingKoala general settings section, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Add a Logo to Your Forms and Website
You can also add your business's logo to your BookingKoala forms and website. This can be done using the Website and Themes Builder.

To begin, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Next, click on the orange "Customize Theme" button.

Header Logo

Once you land on the home page, click on the logo icon at the top left side of the header. A white "Edit" button will appear. Click "Edit" to open a Settings pop-up. Here, you can hover over the logo and select "Replace".

Use the "Upload" tab to upload a new image for your logo to your website builder gallery, or click on the "Gallery" tab if you've previously uploaded a file you'd like to use as your logo.

Then, select the desired file from your gallery and click the blue "Select" button. Your logo will now appear on your header.

Finally, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the website builder to save your changes.

Footer Logo

A logo is also on the footer of your forms and website. To edit this, scroll down to the bottom of the editor until you see the footer section.

This can be edited in the same manner as the logo in the header, by clicking on the logo to reveal the white "Edit" button. From here, you can upload a new file or use one of your previously uploaded files from your gallery.

As always, click "Save & Publish" once you are finished making your changes.



Rename "cash/check" or "credit/debit" on the booking form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/rename-cash-check-credit-debit-on-the-booking-form

Rename "cash/check" or "credit/debit" on the booking form
Learn how to rename the payment options on your booking form(s).

Last updated on 20 Nov, 2024

In this article, you will learn how to:
Ģ Rename your payment options, "cash/check" and "credit/debit"

Renaming Your Payment Options
"Cash/check" and "Credit/debit" are the two types of payment options available in the BookingKoala software. "Cash/check" refers to any payment that takes place outside of BookingKoala, while "Credit/debit" refers to payments that a payment processor processes.

To learn more about the payment options available in BookingKoala, click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/payment-processors-overview).

However, you may want to change the names of these options, especially if you do not accept cash/checks as payment and want to put other forms of external payment options like "Zelle/CashApp/Bank Transfer" instead.

Whatever the case may be, you can change the names that appear on your booking form through the Website & Theme Builder. Please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Once the web builder loads, clock on the top center Page menu and select the "Book Now" page.

Scroll down the booking page until you reach the Payment Information section. Click on the payment method option you would like to edit and click the Edit button that appears.

Once you've entered the new text, be sure to click the Save & Publish button in the top right corner of the page.



Add testimonials to your site
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-testimonials-to-your-site

Add testimonials to your site
Learn how to add a testimonials section to your BookingKoala website.

Last updated on 15 Nov, 2024

In this article, you will learn more about:
Ģ How to add a testimonial section to your website
Ģ How to customize the testimonial section

Add a Testimonial Section
In addition to the Live Reviews widget, you can display reviews on your website via a testimonial section. However, unlike the Live Reviews section, you can manually enter testimonials from any site or platform of your choice.

To get started, go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the Website & Theme Builder.

Use the top center Page menu to select which page you would like to add a testimonials section to.

You can even create a new page specifically for sharing testimonials.
Ģ Click here to learn how to add a new page to your website.
Ģ Click here to learn how to add a new page to your header or footer.

Once on the page, hover your cursor between sections and click the "Add Section" button.

A menu will appear on the left side of the screen. Scroll down and click on the "Testimonials" section. Then, select one of the four options and click "Add this section".

Once you've added the section, you can begin to customize it according to your needs.

Ģ You can change the title of the section by clicking on the title and selecting "Edit".
Ģ You can add, edit, and delete testimonials by clicking anywhere on the testimonials and selecting the "Edit" button that appears.
? Click the arrow icon to open and edit an existing testimonial.
? Click the Show/Hide button to show or hide part of the testimonial.
? Click the red trashcan icon to delete a testimonial.
? Click the blue Add item button to add a new testimonial.
Ģ You can change the colors of your testimonials section by clicking "Edit" and selecting the "Style" tab.
? You can edit the background color, title color, subtitle color, description color, and "read more" color for this particular testimonial section.

Once you are finished making your edits, be sure to click on the "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page to save your changes.



Migrate custom domain to new IP
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/migrate-custom-domain-to-new-ip

Migrate custom domain to new IP
Last updated on23 Apr, 2025

Change the A records for an existing connected domain or subdomain
If you already have a domain connected with your BookingKoala account, please follow the guidelines to change the A records and verify the domain.

612 Login to your domain's registrar account.
613 Locate and open the domain's DNS settings page to edit them.  You may see a section called "Advanced DNS" or "Manage DNS settings".
614 Remove the A record with IP address 18.188.223.178
615 Now add following two IPs in the A record for the domain or subdomain

616 162.159.141.169
172.66.1.165  

617 Repeat following steps to add both IP addresses in A records.
618 Record Type:

? Enter or select " A " or " A record "
619 Name:

? For primary domains : Enter the @ symbol or leave the section blank if it says to leave the box empty to set up records for the primary domain.
? For other subdomains : Enter the subdomain's name/extension here.

Ģ For example, you would enter the word " bookings " here to create a subdomain called " bookings.yourbusinessname.com ".
620 Data/IP Address :

? Add the IP address
621 TTL :

? If you see this option when setting up the A record,  you use the host's default selection such as " Automatic ", " 3600", or "60 minutes".
Image
622 Click whichever option is offered to "Add", "Update", or "Save" your new/edited A record.
623 (this step is applicable only if you are connecting the main domain but not the subdomain)
Once you have added the A records for the domain, make sure all other A records are removed.
624 Next, you will need to add CNAME for the www subdomain as shown in the below example, make sure that value for CNAME contains your domain only. For example, if your domain is mydomain.com then the value should be mydomain.com.

Image

Please refer to the link below on how to edit the DNS records for some of the most common domain registrars used by our clients.

Ģ GoDaddy.com
Ģ Domain.com
Ģ Namecheap.com
Ģ Bluehost.com
Ģ Wix.com
Ģ Register.com
Ģ Domains.Google
Ģ Shopify.com
Ģ Ionos.com
Ģ Hostgator.com
Ģ Squarespace.com

If you do not see your host listed here, we recommend logging into your account and searching their help section for topics like " How to Edit DNS Records " or " How to Add an A Record ", or contacting a member of their customer support team.  You are always welcome to contact support@bookingkoala.com and we can help you locate instructions for your registrar.

Once these changes are done, your domain will be ready to verify, please note that it might take upto few hours to update the A records and we recommend you checking them with this tool What's My DNS

Verify domain in the account

Once the A records have been added, please go to Settings > Design Forms & Website > Change Your Domain, click on the "Verify" button.

Image

Note : It might take few minute or hours to populate the A records and install the SSL, please reach out to our support in case the domain is connected but not working, our development team will check and guide you if any changes are required or complete the process.

Check Your Domain A Records

Adding or updating your domain's A records can take up to 48 hours depending on the TTL period you set. To check if the process has been completed, you can use the What's My DNS tool to see where the IP address has been updated for your site.

625 After clicking on the link above, enter your domain name into the first box.
626 Then, select " A " for the record type .
627 Click " Search ".

Please reach out to our support in case the domain is connected but not working, our development team will check and guide you if any changes are required or complete the process.



7. Industries and booking forms
Articles in this collection (40):

628 Industries and booking forms
629 Form settings
630 Test mode and disabling forms and industries
631 How to set up Form 1
632 How to set up form 2
633 How to set up form 3
634 How to set up form 4
635 How to set up form 5
636 Add, delete, or rename an industry or form
637 Add or combine forms
638 Change the icons and names of your industries
639 Setting up locations for every form
640 Enable/disable locations
641 Name-based locations
642 Setting up service fees
643 Location dependencies
644 Setting up frequencies for every form
645 Frequency dependencies
646 Setting up service categories for every form
647 Setting up pricing parameters for form 1
648 Setting up packages for form 2
649 Setting up items for forms 2 & 3
650 Setting up add-ons for form 2
651 Setting up extras for every form
652 "Multiply" vs "manual" pricing and time for extras and add-ons
653 Offer different services on the customer end
654 How to remove "dependencies" from the booking form
655 Setting up custom sections for every form
656 Set up the single-step or two-step booking form for admin & staff
657 Enable/disable customers & providers from seeing job length
658 Set up the single-step, two-step, or multi-step booking form for customers
659 Setting up tips and parking
660 Enable the "key message" option
661 How to enable manual booking reminders
662 Booking form is not working, what to do
663 Why no dates/times show when scheduling
664 Set up pricing parameters for form 4
665 Setting up add-ons for form 3
666 Different pricing for different service categories
667 Minimum price and time limits



Industries and booking forms
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/industries-and-booking-forms

Industries and booking forms
Learn more about the difference between industries and booking forms, and how to find the right booking form for your business.

Last updated on 18 Apr, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ The difference between are industries and booking forms
Ģ How to select the best booking form for your industry

What are industries and booking forms?
In BookingKoala, an industry represents the type of business you do. When you first create your account, you will select one or more industries from the "Add Industry" page, or can create a custom industry.

On the admin dashboard, you can see which industries you have added by going to Settings > Industries.

For example, the account in the image above has four industries: Home Cleaning, Pet Groomer, Moving Service, and Car Repair.

On the customer-facing end of the website, each industry is represented as a different tab.

For more information on how to add/edit your industries, click here.

Each industry contains one or more booking forms to carry out the process of calculating a quote based on the selections they make. Each booking form represents a different type of pricing structure that a business could use to quote their customers.

If you offer more than one type of pricing structure for your industry, you can add and combine multiple booking forms. This allows a customer to pick which structure or service type works best for them.

For more information on how to add/combine booking forms, click here.

There are five types of booking forms to chose from when you are setting up your industry: Form 1, Form 2, Form 3, Form 4, and Form 5.

Form 1

Form 1 uses variables as the pricing parameters to determine the total cost and length of each booking. A variable is any piece of information associated with a pre-defined price.

For example, the home-cleaning industry often uses bedrooms and bathrooms as variables. When a customer selects how many bedrooms and bathrooms are in their home, their selections will use these variables to determine the total cost of the booking.

To learn how to set up Form 1, click here.

Form 2

Form 2 uses items, packages, and add-ons to determine the booking total. An item represents a different type of category of service. Once the customer selects the item that applies to them, they can view a list of packages to add and schedule. Add-ons are smaller services that can be added to further customize a package.

For example, in the car detailing industry, the items would be the type of car. Once the customer selects their car type, the packages available for their car will display below. The customer can select add-ons for the package, or go back and add more items and packages.

To learn how to set up Form 2, click here.

Form 3

Form 3 uses items and add-ons to determine the cost of a booking. Items represent a category or object receiving the service, and the add-ons are the different services available for purchase.

For example, a pet grooming business may make the type of pet into their items. This means their items would be: cat, small dog, medium dog, large dog, and bird. When the customer selects their pet's species, they will see a list of services and add whichever ones they'd like to book.

To learn how to set up Form 3, click here.

Form 4

Form 4 uses unit structure in the pricing parameters to determine the total cost and length of each booking. Unit structure-based pricing means that the price is set for one unit of measurement, with the total cost depending on how many units the customer has selected.

For example, let's say a cleaning business determines its rates based on total square feet. This means that their unit structure is per a single square foot. When the customer enters the total number of square feet into the box, the system will multiply that number by the unit's price and length information to provide a quote.

To learn how to set up Form 4, click here.

Form 5

Form 5 uses hourly rates to determine the total cost and length of each booking. The system multiplies the number of hours by the rate to provide a quote for the booking.

For example, a cleaning service may provide different hourly rates depending on the type of job or space: residential, commercial, and post-construction. The customer can select whichever category applies to their situation, and then selects how many hours they would like to book. The system will multiple the number of hours by the rate to provide a quote.

To learn how to set up Form 5, click here.

Additional Resources
To view a live form on a site made using our themes, click here.

To view a live form that has been embedded on an existing site, click here.

Please note: When trying to get to the second step of the booking form above, you will be required to enter a zip code that is in this business's service area. Please enter 10001 into the zip code box,

Click here to view the following demos:
Ģ Full 57 Minute BookingKoala Overview
Ģ Are you struggling to gain new customers?
Ģ Are you struggling to convert visitors into customers?
Ģ Is managing your service getting out of control?
Ģ Struggling with hiring providers?
Ģ Need ideas of what your booking forms could look like?

Use the links below to visit a guide on how to set up each section within the booking forms:
Ģ Locations
Ģ Sales Tax
Ģ Frequencies
Ģ Service categories
Ģ Pricing parameters (variables and excluding variables)
Ģ Items
Ģ Packages
Ģ Add-ons
Ģ Extras



Form settings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/form-settings

Form settings
Learn which features are controlled in your booking form settings and how to change them.

Last updated on 15 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to locate the booking form settings section
Ģ How to enable or disable features controlled by the form settings

What are form settings?
Your booking form's settings control several key aspects of how you and your customers schedule services, including:
Ģ Setting up the one-step, two-step, and/or multi-step form types for customers and admin
Ģ Enabling Zip/postal code-based or name-based locations, or no location at all
Ģ Allowing customers to book individuals, teams, or both
Ģ Special "items" settings for Form 3
Ģ Enabling "none" parameters for Form 1
Ģ Enabling validation for the form's pricing parameters
Ģ Making the service fee taxable
Ģ Change the form from live to test mode
Ģ Enabling dependencies

To locate your form's settings, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Next, click "Options", then "Edit" to the right of the form name/"Form [#]".

Please Note: The "Form Settings" section is also displayed after adding a new or different booking form to an industry.

Form Settings
Once you are on the "Form Settings" page, please go through each option to set up how you would like your booking form to work.

Would you like a one-step or two-step booking form as the admin?
Ģ Select "One Step" to have the booking form appear as a single page on the backend of the site.
Ģ Select "Two-Step" if you'd like to have two pages to navigate between when booking on the backend.

Would you like a one-step, two-step, or multi-step booking form on the customer end?
Ģ Select "One Step" to have the booking form appear as a single page on the backend of the site.
Ģ Select "Two-Step" if you'd like to have two pages to navigate between when booking on the backend.
Ģ Select "Multi-Step" if you'd like to break each section into its own step.

How would you like the system to manage your locations?
Ģ Select "Zip/Postal code-based" if you want your service areas to consist of a list of zip or postal codes. Customers will then enter a zip code to check if you service their area.
Ģ Select "Name-based" if you want your service areas to consist of a list of place names. Customers will select their location from a drop-down list when booking a service.
Ģ Select "No location" if you want to disable locations for this booking form. This means that you or your customers will not need to enter any location at the top of the form to see if you service their area.

Do you perform services at your location?
Ģ Select "My location or online" if your services will be provided at your business's location or online.
Ģ Select "Client location" to create a service area. This means you will be traveling to your clients to perform the job.
Ģ Select "Both" if you perform services both at your business and the client's location.

If a customer books online can teams and/or individuals be scheduled?
Ģ Check the box next to "Individuals" if you want customers to be able to book individual providers when using this form.
Ģ Check the box next to "Teams" if you want customers to be able to book teams using this form.
If you do not check either box, customers will not be able to book any type of provider for a service and they will only see "No Availability" when checking dates and times.

Would you like to add validation for the form's pricing parameters?
Ģ Select "Yes" to require the admin and customer to select the pricing parameters to schedule a booking. This prevents customers and admin from creating bookings that do not contain any pricing information or booking details.
? For example, if you offer your customers packages, the customer must add at least one package to their cart in order to schedule a service.
Ģ Select "No" to disable validation for the form's pricing parameters. This means that customers and admin do not need to select any of the pricing parameters in order to schedule a service.
? For example, if you offer pricing based on square footage, the "square feet" box can be left empty and the job will still be saved to the schedule.

Would you want to add an item as a separate entity if the user selects the same item with the same package already in your list chosen? (Form 2) If you are using Form 2 and have set up items, decide if multiple selections of the same item and package belong to the same entity or if they should be treated as separate entities.
Ģ Select "Yes" to treat each item as a separate entity. When the same item is added more than once, each item will be considered separate from the previous one.
? In this example, the booking form reflects that two separate Honda cars have been added, each set up for the "interior detailing" package.
Ģ Select "No" to treat every item as one entity. When the same items are added more than once with the same package, the form will display one item with multiple packages.
? In this example, the booking form reflects that one Honda has been added with two of the same package.

Would you want to add an item as a separate entity if the user selects the same item with the same package already in your list chosen? (Form 2) This option Form 2 settings allow you to decide whether you would like to show items as one entity or multiple.
Ģ Select "Yes" to show each item and package as separate entities. For example, this form uses the option to indicate the packages and add-ons for each item (car). This customer has two different cars that require service during this booking.
Ģ Select "No" if you want to consolidate all packages into one item if the same item is selected more than once. This option assumes there is only one item being serviced. In this example, there is just one car (item) being serviced. If multiple packages or services are added under the "Honda" category, the system will assume these will be for this single car.

Would you like to add an option for 'None' to the pricing select list? (Form 1) This feature allows you to add "None" as an option for the pricing parameters/variable categories added to your form.
Ģ Select "Yes" to add an option for "None" to each variable category. This option will not have any settings and will not impact the booking price or time estimate.
Ģ Select "No" if you do not want to add the "None" option for each category.

Would you like to make the service fee taxable? If you have set up service fees and taxes for your locations, decide whether or not the service fee will be taxable.
Ģ Select "Yes" to charge tax on the service fee.
Ģ Select "No" to exempt tax on the service fee.

Form StatusThe toggle button below "Form Status" allows you to control whether the form is live or in test mode. When a form is in test mode, customers see an "under maintenance" message on the front end while the admin still has access to make adjustments and updates.
If you would like to turn off your form from being used by customers, switch the toggle button to "Disabled".

DependenciesThe last several questions in your form settings relate to setting up dependencies. When you enable a dependency for a category in your booking form, you can customize how other categories will display when this option is selected. Simply put, one category's options will depend on the selection(s) of another.
To set up a dependency, check the box beneath the question that contains the category you would like to link.
In this example, the form's frequencies will depend on which location the client is booking. This allows the business to offer different frequencies based on which location is being serviced.

Remember to Save!
Once you have gone through all of your form's settings and have made your selections be sure to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
Once you have saved your updates, you will see a pop-up that lets you know the form settings have been updated successfully. It also asks if you want to be redirected to the service category section or the form listing. You can also click the red X icon at the top right corner to close this window.



Test mode and disabling forms and industries
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/turn-off-delete-forms-industries

Test mode and disabling forms and industries
Learn how to disable forms and/or industries for customer use and place a form under test mode.

Last updated on 01 Feb, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to turn on "test mode" for a booking form
Ģ How to disable a booking form
Ģ How to disable an industry

Enabling Test Mode for Booking Forms
If you are working on a new booking form but do now want your customers to see it, you can put the form in "Test Mode".

When a form is in test mode, customers see an "under maintenance" message on the front end while the admin still has access to make adjustments and updates.

To put a form into test mode, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form settings.

Scroll down to where it says "Form Status" and toggle it to "Disabled". Click the blue "Save" button to update the form.

The form will now be hidden from customers.

To make a booking form live again, go back to the Form Settings page and switch the form status to "Enabled".

Disabling a Booking Form
If you no longer want to use a specific booking form for your industry, you can choose to disable it. This means the form will no longer be displayed on the front- or back-end of the website and cannot be used by customers, admin, or staff members.

Disabling a booking form is a better option than deleting it if you'd like to retain the form information in case you ever want to use it again.

To disable a booking form, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", "Disable".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to disable this form. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The form will now be hidden from both customers and admin/staff.

Disabling an Industry
You can disable an industry if you are making major changes and want to temporarily stop customers from booking. This removes the industry from the booking page entirely while allowing the admin to make changes.

To disable an industry, go to:
Settings > Industries > Add/Delete Industry

Click the "Added Industries" tab at the top of the page.

Locate the industry you'd like to disable and switch the "Enabled" button under the Customer Status column to "Disabled".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to disable this industry. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The industry will now be disabled for customers.



How to set up Form 1
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-form-1

How to set up Form 1
Learn how to completely set up Form 1 from scratch.

Last updated on 23 Jun, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How does Form 1 work
Ģ What are pricing parameters and variables
Ģ How to add Form 1 to your industry
Ģ How to set up locations, frequencies, service categories, pricing parameters, extras, and custom sections in Form 1

What is Form 1?
Form 1 is a type of booking form used in BookingKoala. Each booking form represents a different type of pricing structure a business can use to quote their clients. Form 1 uses variables in the pricing parameters to determine the total cost and length of each booking.

What is a variable?
A variable is any piece of information associated with a pre-defined price. Almost anything can be made into a variable.

For example, the home-cleaning industry often uses bedrooms and bathrooms as variables. When a customer selects how many bedrooms and bathrooms are in their home, their selections will use these variables to determine the total cost.

How do I add Form 1 to my industry?
Depending on your industry, Form 1 may or may not be set as the default form. If you would like to use Form 1 instead, you can easily add it through the settings section. Go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form

Next, click the blue Add New Form button. The Select Form page will open with a list of the remaining forms available for use. Click on Form 1 and click the blue Next button to customize the form's settings.

Form 1 Settings
Once you have added the form, you will next need to set up your Form settings. These settings pertain to how to form is viewed by the admin, the customer, and a variety of other options on how the form will behave under specific circumstances.

If you are ever unsure what an option means, hover over the orange "i"/tooltip icon to view more information.

Remember to click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page once you have made your selections. After saving, you can choose to be redirected to the Service Categories section or the Form Listing page for this industry.

Setting the Default Form
If you would like to set the form as your default for this industry, click on Go To Form Listing. You can also navigate to this page from the side menu by going to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

From here, click Options next to Form 1 and select Make Default.

A pop-up window will confirm if you want to change the default form. Click Yes to continue. This form will now display as your booking form.

You may also use the Options button to Disable the form you are not going to use. Once a form has been disabled, it cannot be seen or used by customers or the admin. Forms can be re-enabled at any time.

How do I set up Form 1?
The steps you will take to set up your form are already listed in the suggested order once you click Form 1 from the side menu.

If you already created settings in a different default form, most of those settings will be automatically copied into your new form. The settings that are automatically transferred are existing Locations, Frequencies, Service Categories, Extras, and Custom Sections.

If you are starting from scratch with Form 1, click each section name to view a detailed step-by-step guide. We recommend you follow this order when setting up your form:

668 Locations
669 Frequencies
670 Service Category
671 Pricing Parameter (for Form 1)
672 Extras
673 Custom Sections



How to set up form 2
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-form-2

How to set up form 2
Learn how to completely set up form 2 from scratch.

Last updated on 28 Sept, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are items, packages, and add-ons
Ģ How to add form 2 to your industry
Ģ How to set up locations, frequencies, service categories, items, packages, add-ons, extras, and custom sections in form 2

What is form 2?
Form 2 is a type of booking form used in BookingKoala. Each booking form represents a different type of pricing structure a business can use to quote their clients. Form 3 uses packages (and optionally, items and add-ons) as a pricing structure to determine the total cost and length of each booking.

What are items, packages, and add-ons?
The main component of form 2 is the package. Packages allow the customer to see a picture, image, and description of each service. Customers can scroll through the available packages to view pricing and then add them to their cart.

Packages can be further customized by adding items. Items represent different categories your customer can select to customize their service. Items are not associated with any price or time information. You may want to include "items" in your form set up if your business offers different rates based on the specific type of object being serviced.

For example, in the automotive industry, rates and services vary depending on the car. In Bookingkoala, this business's items might be "Honda", "Volkswagon", "Jeep", and "Saab". Once an item is selected, available packages will be displayed below.

Packages can be further customized by creating add-ons. Add-ons represent additional services your customer can add to their package. Like items, add-ons are optional in form 2.

For example, let's say a car detailing company offers an interior detailing package. For an additional fee, they can upgrade the package and add deep-cleaning of car mats to the service. They can create an add-on for each extra service so clients can better customize their package.

How do I add form 2 to my industry?
Depending on your industry, form 2 may or may not be set as the default form. If you would like to use form 2 instead, you can easily add it through the settings section. Go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form

Next, click the blue Add New Form button. The Select Form page will open with a list of the remaining forms available for use. Click on Form 2 and click the blue Next button.

Here, you will be able to set up your Form settings. These settings pertain to how to form is viewed by the admin, the customer, and a variety of other options on how to customize your booking form.

If you are ever unsure what an option means, hover over the orange "i"/tooltip icon to view more information.

Remember to click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page once you have made your selections. After saving, you can choose to be redirected to the Service Categories section or the Form Listing page for this industry.

Setting the Default Form
If you would like to set the form as your default for this industry, click on Go To Form Listing. You can also navigate to this page from the side menu by going to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

From here, click Options next to Form 2 and select Make Default.

A pop-up window will confirm if you want to change the default form. Click Yes to continue. This form will now display as your booking form.

You may also use the Options button to Disable the form you are not going to use. Once a form has been disabled, it cannot be seen or used by customers or the admin. Forms can be re-enabled at any time.

How do I set up form 2?
The steps you will take to set up your form are already listed in the suggested order once you click Form 2 from the side menu.

If you already created settings in a different default form, most of those settings will be automatically copied into your new form. The settings that are automatically transferred are existing Locations, Frequencies, Service Categories, Items, Packages, Add-Ons, Extras, and Custom Sections.

If you are starting from scratch with form 2, click each section name to view a detailed step-by-step guide. We recommend you follow this order when setting up your form:

1. Locations 2. Frequencies 3. Service Category 4. Items 5. Packages 6. Addons 7. Extras 8. Custom Sections



How to set up form 3
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-form-3

How to set up form 3
Learn how to completely set up form 3 from scratch.

Last updated on 22 Jan, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are items and add-ons
Ģ How to add form 3 to your industry
Ģ How to set up locations, frequencies, service categories, items, add-ons, extras, and custom sections in form 3

What is form 3?
Form 3 is a type of booking form used in BookingKoala. Each booking form represents a different type of pricing structure a business can use to quote their clients. Form 3 uses items and add-ons as a pricing structure to determine the total cost and length of each booking.

What are items and add-ons?
Items represent different categories your customer can select to customize their service. Items are not associated with any price or time information. The forms will work best if your business offers different rates based on the specific type of object being serviced.

For example, in the pet grooming industry, rates and services vary depending on the type of pet. In Bookingkoala, this business's items would be "Cat", "Small Dog", "Medium Dog", and "Large Dog".

Once the customer selects an item, they can view a list of "add-ons". Add-ons are the different services you have available for purchase.

For example, a pet grooming business may cater to cats, dogs, and birds. If they offer services for brushing, shampooing, conditioning, and nail trimming, these services would be their add-ons.

Add-ons contain an icon and description of your service and can be customized per item. Add-ons can also be added in multiple quantities with a multiply-type or custom pricing structure.

How do I add form 3 to my industry?
Depending on your industry, form 3 may or may not be set as the default form. If you would like to use form 3 instead, you can easily add it through the settings section. Go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form

Next, click the blue Add New Form button. The Select Form page will open with a list of the remaining forms available for use. Click on Form 3 and click the blue Next button.

Here, you will be able to set up your Form settings . These settings pertain to how to form is viewed by the admin, the customer, and a variety of other options on how to customize your booking form.

Click here to view our guide on what features are controlled under your form's settings.

If you are ever unsure what an option means, hover over the orange " i "/ tooltip icon to view more information.

Remember to click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page once you have made your selections. After saving, you can choose to be redirected to the Service Categories section or the Form Listing page for this industry.

Setting the Default Form
If you would like to set the form as your default for this industry, click on Go To Form Listing. You can also navigate to this page from the side menu by going to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

From here, click Options next to Form 3 and select Make Default .

A pop-up window will confirm if you want to change the default form. Click Yes to continue. This form will now display as your booking form.

You may also use the Options button to Disable the form you are not going to use. Once a form has been disabled, it cannot be seen or used by customers or the admin. Forms can be re-enabled at any time. For more information about how to delete a form, click here .

How do I set up form 3?
The steps you will take to set up your form are already listed in the suggested order once you click Form 3 from the side menu.

If you already created settings in a different default form, most of those settings will be automatically copied into your new form. The settings that are automatically transferred are existing Locations , Frequencies , Service Categories , Items , Add-Ons , Extras , and Custom Sections .

If you are starting from scratch with form 3, click each section name to view a detailed step-by-step guide. We recommend you follow this order when setting up your form:

1. Locations 2. Frequencies 3. Service Category 4. Items 5. Addons 5. Extras 6. Custom Sections



How to set up form 4
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-form-4

How to set up form 4
Overview
Ģ Purpose: Learn how to set up Form 4 from beginning to end.
Ģ Last updated: 22 Jan, 2025
Ģ Topics covered:
? How does Form 4 work
? What are variables
? How to add Form 4 to your industry
? How to set up locations, frequencies, service categories, pricing parameters, extras, and custom sections in Form 4

What is Form 4?
Ģ Form 4 is a type of booking form used in BookingKoala.
Ģ Each booking form represents a different type of pricing structure a business can use to quote their clients.
Ģ Form 4 uses unit structure in the pricing parameters to determine the total cost and length of each booking.
Ģ All pricing is determined by the cost per unit.
Ģ Example: Pricing parameters may be square feet. The price of a job is determined by how many total square feet the space is.

What is unit structure-based pricing?
Ģ Definition: Unit structure-based pricing means that the price is set for one unit of measurement, with the total cost depending on how many units the customer has selected.
Ģ Example: A cleaning business determines its rates based on total square feet. They charge $0.18 per square foot for residential services. If a client enters "1000" for square feet, the system will multiply that number by the unit's rate to provide a quote of $180.00.

How do I add Form 4 to my industry?
Ģ Depending on your industry, Form 4 may or may not be set as the default form.
Ģ Navigation Path to add Form 4: Go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form
Ģ Step-by-step instructions:
673.1 Click the blue Add New Form button.
673.2 The Select Form page will open with a list of the remaining forms available for use.
673.3 Click on Form 4 and click the blue Next button.
673.4 Set up your Form settings. These settings pertain to how the form is viewed by the admin, the customer, and a variety of other options on how to customize your booking form.
673.5 Note: If you are ever unsure what an option means, hover over the orange "i" / tooltip icon to view more information.
673.6 Click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page once you have made your selections.
673.7 After saving, you can choose to be redirected to the Service Categories section or the Form Listing page for this industry.

Setting the Default Form
Ģ Navigation Path to Form Listing: Go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings (or click Go To Form Listing after saving the form).
Ģ Step-by-step instructions to make default:
673.8 From the Form Listing page, click Options next to Form 4.
673.9 Select Make Default.
673.10 A pop-up window will confirm if you want to change the default form. Click Yes to continue.
673.11 This form will now display as your booking form.
Ģ Disabling a form:
? You may also use the Options button to Disable the form you are not going to use.
? Important Note: Once a form has been disabled, it cannot be seen or used by customers or the admin. Forms can be re-enabled at any time.

How do I set up Form 4?
Ģ The steps you will take to set up your form are already listed in the suggested order once you click Form 4 from the side menu.
Ģ Important Note on existing settings: If you already created settings in a different default form, most of those settings will be automatically copied into your new form. The settings that are automatically transferred are existing Locations, Frequencies, Service Categories, Extras, and Custom Sections.
Ģ Step-by-step setup order (if starting from scratch):
673.12 Locations
673.13 Frequencies
673.14 Service Category
673.15 Pricing Parameter (for Form 4)
673.16 Extras
673.17 Custom Sections
Ģ Click each section name in the interface to view a detailed step-by-step guide for that specific section.



How to set up form 5
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-form-5

How to set up form 5
Learn how to completely set up form 5 from scratch.

Last updated on 22 Jan, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is form 5
Ģ How to add form 5 to your industry
Ģ How to set up locations, frequencies, service categories, extras, and custom sections in form 5

What is form 5?
Form 5 is a type of booking form used in BookingKoala. Each booking form represents a different type of pricing structure a business can use to quote their clients. Form 5 uses service categories with hourly rates to determine the total cost and length of each booking.

What are hourly-based service categories?
A service category is the type of service your business offers to your customers. If you offer different rates depending on the type of job, you can create multiple service categories and allow the customer to select which one they would like to book.

In form 5, every service category corresponds with an hourly rate. The customer will select which service they would like to book and then enter how many hours they would like the service to last.

For example, let's say a cleaning business charges $50/hour for regular residential services, $40/hour for commercial spaces, and $60/hour for post-construction services. In BookingKoala, this would translate to three service categories.

How do I add form 5 to my industry?
Depending on your industry, form 5 may or may not be set as the default form. If you would like to use form 5 instead, you can easily add it through the settings section. Go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form

Next, click the blue Add New Form button. The Select Form page will open with a list of the remaining forms available for use. Click on Form 5 and click the blue Next button.

Here, you will be able to set up your Form settings. These settings pertain to how the form is viewed by the admin, the customer, and a variety of other options on how to customize your booking form.

Click here to view our guide on what features are controlled under your form's settings.

If you are ever unsure what an option means, hover over the orange "i"/tooltip icon to view more information.

Remember to click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page once you have made your selections. After saving, you can choose to be redirected to the Service Categories section or the Form Listing page for this industry.

Setting the Default Form
If you would like to set the form as your default for this industry, click on Go To Form Listing. You can also navigate to this page from the side menu by going to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

From here, click Options next to Form 1 and select Make Default.

A pop-up window will confirm if you want to change the default form. Click Yes to continue. This form will now display as your booking form.

You may also use the Options button to Disable the form you are not going to use. Once a form has been disabled, it cannot be seen or used by customers or the admin. Forms can be re-enabled at any time. For more information about how to delete a form, click here.

How do I set up Form 5?
The steps you will take to set up your form are already listed in the suggested order once you click Form 5 from the side menu.

If you already created settings in a different default form, most of those settings will be automatically copied into your new form. The settings that are automatically transferred are existing Locations, Frequencies, Service Categories, Extras, and Custom Sections.

If you are starting from scratch with form 5, click each section name to view a detailed step-by-step guide. We recommend you follow this order when setting up your form:

1. Locations 2. Frequencies 3. Service Category 4. Extras 5. Custom Sections



Add, delete, or rename an industry or form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-delete-or-rename-an-industry-or-form

Add, delete, or rename an industry or form
Learn how to add, rename, and delete additional booking forms and industries.

Last updated on 31 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to add another industry to your account
Ģ How to rename an industry
Ģ How to delete an industry
Ģ How to add another booking form to your industry
Ģ How to delete a booking form from your industry

Before You Begin
Please note, that multiple industries are only available in the Growing and Premium subscriptions. This includes unlimited Custom Industriesas well.
If you are on theStarter plan, you can delete an industry and select a new one, but there cannot be more than one total industry per your account.

Adding an Industry
To add a new industry to your BookingKoal account, go to: Settings > Industries > Add Industry

You will be directed to the " Add Industry " page. Industries you are already using will have a blue checkmarknext to the name.
Select an existing industry from the list, or click the grey "Customize Your Own" button at the bottom of the page.
You will be directed to the "Select Form" page. Here, you can view a description of each form type and select which you would like to add to the industry. Click the blue "Next" button once you've selected the form number.
If you have existing industries, you can choose to import form elements from those industries into your new industry. Check the boxes next to the elements you would like to import and then click the blue "Save" button.
Finally, you will be directed to the "Form Settings " page. These control various settings for how your booking form will function. After going through and making your selections, click the blue " Save" button at the bottom of the page.
You will see a pop-up window letting you know the form settings have been updated successfully. From here, you can choose to be directed to the service categories section, the form listing section, or you can close out the window using the red "X" icon.

Renaming an Industry
To rename an industry, please go to: Settings > Industries > Add/Delete Industry

Next, locate the industry you would like to rename and click the Edit button next to that industry's name.
AnEdit Industry pop-up will appear with an editable Name field and an Upload Imageoption to change the industry's icon.
Click the blueSave button to update the industry if you made any changes, or Cancel if you wish to return without saving changes.

Deleting an Industry
To delete an industry, please go to: Settings > Industries > Add/Delete Industry

Go into the " Added Industries" section by clicking the tab at the top of the page.
Locate the industry you'd like to delete, then click the "Delete" button on the right end of the row.
A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to delete this industry. Remember, once an industry is deleted from the system, all of the data within that industry will be deleted and cannot be recovered.
Click "Yes " to proceed with the deletion.

Adding a Form to an Industry
If you would like to use a booking form that was not included in your industry, you can easily add it through the settings section. Go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form

Next, click the blue Add New Form button. The Select Formpage will open with a list of the remaining forms available for use.
Click on the button with the form numbers at the top of the page to see a description of each form. Once you have made your selection, click the blueNextbutton.
Once you have added the form, you will next need to set up yourForm settings. These settings pertain to how to form is viewed by the admin, the customer, and a variety of other options on how the form will behave under specific circumstances.
If you are ever unsure what an option means, hover over the orange "i "/ tooltip iconto view more information.
Remember to click the blueSave button at the bottom of the page once you have made your selections. After saving, you can choose to be redirected to the Service Categories section or the Form Listing page for this industry.

Deleting a Form
To delete a form from your industry, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Find the row that contains the form you would like to delete and make sure it is not set as your default, as you cannot delete the default form. Click " Options" then "Delete".A pop-up window will open asking if you are sure you want to delete this form. Remember, all data and information used in this form will be deleted and cannot be retrieved.
If you are sure you are ready to delete the form, click "Yes" to proceed.
The form will now be completely deleted from your account.



Add or combine forms
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-or-combine-forms

Add or combine forms
Learn how to add another form to your industry and combine two or more forms together to give your customers additional options when booking.

Last updated on 06 Aug, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand how to:
Ģ Add another form to your industry
Ģ Combine two or more forms together

Add a Form
When you sign up for your BookingKoala account, you select an industry that comes with a recommended booking form to set up your pricing scheme. If you would like to use a different form than the one that came with your industry, you can easily add another form type, or even create a combination of multiple forms to allow your customers to pick which type of pricing they want to book with.

For example, if you selected the "Home Cleaning" industry when you first signed up, your industry will come with Form 1, which uses variables (like the total number of bedrooms and bathrooms) to come up with your customer's price. If you wanted to use Form 4 instead, which uses a single variable category like square footage to calculate the rate, you could add Form 4 to your industry.

To add a new form, you will go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form

Click on the blue "Add New Form" button.

You will be redirected to a "Select Form" page. Click on each Form Number to view an example of the form structure and a description of how that form's pricing structure works.

Once you've selected which form you'd like to add, click the blue "Next" button. You will be redirected to the "Form Settings" page.

Go through each question to set up your settings for how the form will behave. Once you are done making your selections, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right of the screen.

A pop-up will appear, letting you know the form settings have been updated successfully. From here, you can choose to go to the service category section to begin adding service categories, the form listing to see all forms that have been added, or click the red "X" icon to exit this pop-up and remain on the form settings page.

Combine Two or More Forms
You may want to combine two or more forms if you allow your customers to choose which type of pricing they have for their services. For example, a home cleaning business may let customers book flat-rate OR hourly services. To give customers an option for either/or, you can create a form combination.

To combine two or more forms, you must first have added at least two forms to your industry. Then, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form

Below is the "Combine 2 forms" tab, create a pre-qualifying question so customers can select which form they would like to use.

Below the box for "Option 1", type in a label for the form type and then select which form number should be opened when the customer selects this answer.

Repeat this process for "Option 2", selecting the other form you want to use.

If you would like to combine more than 2 forms, click the light blue "Add Option" button to add additional options for your other forms.

Once you are finished, click the blue "Save" button. You have successfully combined two or more of your forms into one.



Change the icons and names of your industries
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/change-the-icons-in-the-multiple-industries-pop-up

Change the icons and names of your industries
Learn how to change the icons and names in the multiple industries pop-up.

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to change the industry icons in the multiple industries pop-up

Change the Industry Icons
If you are signed up for the Growing or Premium subscription, your BookingKoala account allows you to create forms and pricing for multiple industries. Whenever a store has more than one industry, an industry pop-up will appear whenever a customer navigates to the "Book Now" page.

Each industry in the system is represented by an icon. Once the customer clicks on the industry icon, they are redirected to the corresponding industry tab to fill out the booking form.

If you would like to change the pre-set icon that comes with your industry, please go to: Settings > Industries > Add/Delete Industries

Next, locate the industry amongst the list and click the Edit button.

A pop-up will appear with the option to edit the name of the industry as well as upload a new icon. If you'd like to pick a new icon for the industry, click the Browse button, then Save once you've uploaded the new icon.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page letting you know you have successfully updated your industry icon and/or name.

Please note: Any icons larger than 300 x 300 pixels will be resized by the system, however, file size should be no more than 300 kb. You can easily resize your icons by using free image editing software like Canva or Pixlr.



Setting up locations for every form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-locations-for-every-form

Title: Setting up locations for every form

BookingKoala

Looking for help?

Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides

BookingKoala Help Center

Industries and booking forms

Setting up locations for every form

Industries and booking forms

Setting up locations for every form

Learn about locations, including merchant locations and service areas, and primary versus secondary zip codes.

Last updated on 20 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ Setting up your locations
Ģ Creating a service area
Ģ Use the map tool to create a service area
Ģ Enable secondary locations
Ģ Create a merchant or online location

Setting up your locations

Creating a service area

Use the map tool to create a service area

Enable secondary locations

Create a merchant or online location

With BookingKoala, you can set up multiple locations/zones and control different pricing points and sales tax per location if needed. Later you can run reports based on each one of these locations to find metrics your business needs.

Before You Begin

Before you begin, if you haven't done so already, you will need to flush the test data out of the system.Ā Every new BookingKoala account includes a few fake customers, providers, and bookings to better help you understand the system and test your settings.Ā It is important to flush the test data before starting to build your locations so it does not interfere with your settings.

To flush the test date, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Admin Tab

At the very bottom of the page, click the red Flush Test Data button. A pop-up box will appear, confirming you would like to delete the data. SelectĀYes to continue.

Please note: If the "Flush Test Data" button or section is missing, the data has already been deleted and you can proceed with the next step.

Getting Started

To begin setting up your locations, go to:

Settings >ĀIndustries >Ā[Industry Name] >ĀForm [#] >Ā1. Locations

If Locations is NOT displaying, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > General > Location Settings

Expand the "Location Settings" section and make sure that either Zip/Postal code-based or Name-based has been selected, then click Save.

Once locations have been enabled, go to:

Settings >ĀIndustries >Ā[Industry Name] >ĀForm [#] >Ā1. Locations

At the top of the Locations page,Āclick the blueĀ"Add New" button at the top of the page to create a new location.

Setting Up Client Locations

If you selected "Client location" under your form settings, you will be setting up a service area for your location.

First, add a name for the location. The system does not allow for duplicate location names.

Zip-Postal Code-Based Locations

If you have selected zip/postal code-based locations, there will be a map tool that you can use to draw your service area and retrieve the zip/postal codes inside.

Using the Map Tool

Click and hold your cursor on the map to reposition and find your location. You can use the zoom buttons to hone in on your service area. Then, click once on the map to drop your first point. After three points are placed, you will start to create the circumference of your map. You can make additional points or move the points you already created to extend or shorten your area.

Once you are satisfied with the highlighted service area, click the blue Get Zipcode button to capture the zip codes within your radius. The codes will be automatically imported into the box below. If you want to start over, click theĀ"Reset Area" button and it will clear the map points and zip codes.

Please note, the zip code finder we use only works for US customers.Ā If you are outside of the US, you will need to upload your zip codes/areas inside the box below the map.

If you already have a list of zip codes, you can paste them in the Primary zip/postal codes or areas box below the map. Please be sure that each zip code is separated by a comma only and no spaces.

For example: 10001,10002,10003,10005,10007,10009,10011

Uploading Zip Codes Manually

You can also upload a spreadsheet with your saved zip codes if you have one by clicking on the blue "Upload zip/postal codes" button and selecting the file from your computer. To make sure your file has been formatted correctly, click the "Download Sample File" button. You can also edit the information into this file and re-upload it.

Additional Location Settings

Below the zip/postal code or place name box, there are several more settings questions to answer.

"Would you like to activate secondary locations?"

Secondary locations are areas that can only be booked by an admin or staff member, and cannot be booked by clients through your booking form.Ā There are several different reasons why you may want to use secondary zip codes.

If you are looking to expand soon, you can start to build a customer base before offering these locations as a booking option online. ĀPerhaps, youÆd like to have more control over booking in areas that are a bit farther than your regular service area. ĀWhatever the case may be, the secondary areas can be added or imported using any of the methods described above.

Whenever a customer types in an area that falls in this secondary list, they will receive a message that they are not in your service area or any other message you'd like to set up. ĀThey will not be able to make a booking for this location online and will need to contact you if they are interested in setting up a booking.

When the admin enters the area into the booking form, they will receive a message saying this is a secondary zip/postal code, but you will still be able to proceed with scheduling the booking.Ā If you ever decide to include a secondary area into your primary service area, you can simply copy and paste it from the bottom list to the top list.

"Will you charge a service fee for traveling to the location?"

This option allows you to charge for a provider traveling to the customer's location. This is a flat fee that is added to the booking total. If you enable this option, then the "Pay for Parking" option will be disabled so the customer does not feel like they are being overcharged.

"Do you wish to exempt sales tax for this location?"

This option allows you to enable or disable sales tax.

If you do want to charge sales tax and you are in the U.S., you can connect a great app called Taxify to automatically calculate and update local taxes, or you can simply create your tax calculation by visiting:

Settings >ĀGeneral >ĀTaxes

Tax rates can be set for each location or you can use one tax rate for all locations.

Next Steps

If you have not connected a payment processor to your account yet, you can click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page. A green box will pop up box will appear in the top right-hand corner saying "Location Saved Successfully".

If you have connected a payment processor, click the blue Next button at the bottom of the page.

If you use Stripe or Square as your payment processor, you will be asked "Do You Want To Setup Different Account For This Location?"

If you select "No, use the default", this will use the Stripe account that you set up in your Store Options.ĀIf you select "Yes, add a new account" or "Yes, use an existing account",Āthis will allow you to use a separate Stripe account for this location. For more information on how to set up your custom locations, visit our articles on connecting Stripe or Square as your payment processor.

Once that has been configured you will click the blueĀ"Next" button to set up yourĀDependenciesĀ(covered at the end of this article).

Named-Based Locations

If you are adding a name-based location, you will be brought to a shorterĀ"Add Location" page.

Ģ Name of service area - Add a name for the location. The system does not allow for duplicate locations names.
Ģ Will you charge a service fee for traveling to the location? - Select "Yes" if you would like to charge an extra fee for clients who book for this location. This fee will be added to their total price.

Name of service area - Add a name for the location. The system does not allow for duplicate locations names.

Will you charge a service fee for traveling to the location? - Select "Yes" if you would like to charge an extra fee for clients who book for this location. This fee will be added to their total price.

Ģ Do you wish to exempt sales tax for this location? -Select "Yes" if you do not want to charge sales tax for this location.ĀIf you select "No", you can later set up your tax options by going to Settings >ĀGeneral >ĀTaxes. Tax rates can be set for each location or you can use one tax rate for all locations.
Ģ Select "Yes" if you do not want to charge sales tax for this location.
Ģ If you select "No", you can later set up your tax options by going to Settings >ĀGeneral >ĀTaxes. Tax rates can be set for each location or you can use one tax rate for all locations.

Do you wish to exempt sales tax for this location? -

Ģ Select "Yes" if you do not want to charge sales tax for this location.
Ģ If you select "No", you can later set up your tax options by going to Settings >ĀGeneral >ĀTaxes. Tax rates can be set for each location or you can use one tax rate for all locations.

Select "Yes" if you do not want to charge sales tax for this location.

If you select "No", you can later set up your tax options by going to Settings >ĀGeneral >ĀTaxes. Tax rates can be set for each location or you can use one tax rate for all locations.

Once you have finished setting up your options, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

For more information on how to enable name-based locations for your form, click here.

Setting Up My Location or Online

If you select "My location or online" under your form settings, you will be setting up a store location instead.

Store Address

First, you will then name your store location and enter the address into the boxes below. There is also an option to hide the address on the booking form if you'd prefer customers not to see the exact address.

Additional Location Settings

Below the address boxes, there are two more options for your location settings.

"Do you wish to exempt sales tax for this location?"Āallows you to enable or disable sales tax.

You can also upload an image for your booking form when a customer selects this location. The image size should not exceed 300x300 pixels.

Next Steps

If you have not connected a payment processor to your account yet, you can click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page. A green box will pop up box will appear in the top right-hand corner saying "Location Saved Successfully".

If you have connected a payment processor, click the blue Next button at the bottom of the page.

If you use Stripe or Square as your payment processor, you will be asked "Do You Want To Setup Different Account For This Location?"

If you select "No, use the default", this will use the Stripe account that you set up in your Store Options.ĀIf you select "Yes, add a new account" or "Yes, use an existing account", this will allow you to use a separate Stripe account for this location. For more information on how to set up your custom locations, visit our articles on connecting Stripe or Square as your payment processor.

Dependencies

Once you have added locations to your booking form, you can choose to set up "dependencies" based on location.Ā When you enable a dependency for a category, you customize how other categories will display when this option is selected.Ā Simply put, one category's options will depend on the selection(s) in another.

Location dependencies can be set up for any type of form component.Ā For example, let's say you offer different-priced packages depending on your client's location.Ā You can set up location dependencies on packages which allows you to create the same package but with different prices for different locations.Ā In the image above, the location dependencies for packages are displayed for the location "Brooklyn".Ā When the client indicates on the booking form that they are in the Brooklyn service area, they will only see the packages enabled here.

To learn how to set up different service options on a location-to-location basis, click here.

Also in the dependencies section are the options to add this location to other industries and forms.Ā Answer "Yes" for the questions "Would you like to add this location to any other industries/booking forms?" and then check the box(es) next to the industry(ies) and form(s) you would like to add the location to.

Providers

When you first create a location, you have the option toĀexclude any providers from that location in this tab (this can also be performed from the provider or team's form settings at any time).Ā This optional step is helpful if you know of any providers that do not service this location.

Check the box(es) next to the provider(s) you want to exclude from this location.Ā This means that the provider will not be able to receive jobs at this location unless you visit the provider's form settings and enable the location for them.

Finally, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page to add your location.

Repeat these steps until you have added all of your locations.

Related Articles

How to set up form 2

Learn how to completely set up form 2 from scratch.

How to set up Form 1

Learn how to completely set up Form 1 from scratch.

How to connect a Square account

Learn how to connect your Square account(s) to charge customers and collect payments.

Name-based locations

Learn how to enable locations based on names instead of ZIP or postal codes.

How to set up Stripe as your payment processor

Learn how to connect your Stripe account(s) so you can save credit cards, process payments, and perform refunds from your BookingKoala account.

How to set up form 4

Learn how to set up Form 4 from beginning to end.

How to set up form 5

Learn how to completely set up form 5 from scratch.

How to set up form 3

Learn how to completely set up form 3 from scratch.

Enable/disable locations



Enable/disable locations
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-the-location-section-under-the-store-options-general-tab

Enable/disable locations
Learn how to set up your general location preferences, including how to enable or disable locations in your booking form.

Last updated on 16 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable or disable locations for your business
Ģ Enable or disable locations for a booking form
Ģ Activate the wildcard zip/postal code feature

General Location Settings
To manage your general Location settings, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Location Settings" section.

Scroll down until you see the question, "How do you want to manage the locations?" This setting controls how locations will work for the entire account.

If you select "Zip/Postal code-based" locations, your service areas will consist of a list of zip or postal codes.
Ģ Whenever a customer enters their zip code into the booking form, they will get a message if you do not service their area.
Ģ If you do service the area, they can proceed with filling out the form.
Ģ To learn how to start setting up the Locations section in your booking form, click here.

If you select "Name-based" locations, your service areas will consist of a list of place names.
Ģ On the booking form, the customer can select their location from a drop-down menu.
Ģ There is also a search bar so customers can type in a specific location to see if it is on the list.
Ģ To learn more about setting up and using name-based locations, click here.

If you select "No location", the Location section will not be used in your booking forms at all.
Ģ This means that anyone with access to your website can schedule services without having to specify where they live.

If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.

Wildcard Zip/Postal Code Feature
If you selected "Zip/Postal code-based" locations for the previous question, you can decide if you'd like to activate the wildcard zip/postal code feature.

To enable wildcard zip/postal codes, select "Yes".

If you service a lot of zip/postal codes in your area, this feature allows you to use abbreviated versions, or "wildcards", in your location(s). When a customer types any part of that wildcard into the location box, the system will allow them to proceed with booking.

For example, let's say your service area uses postal codes like AIAA2A or A1A-A2A. If you enter "A1A" into the wildcard zip/postal code box, a customer who types "A1A-B7G" or "A1AB7G" into the location box will be included in your service area.

Once enabled, you can update your wildcards by going to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Locations

If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.

Form Location Settings
In addition to your general settings, you can also manage your locations per each booking form. To locate your form settings, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Select "Options", and then "Edit" to open up settings for a booking form.

Scroll down to the question, "How would you like the system to manage your locations?"
Ģ Zip/Postal Code Based - Your service areas will consist of a list of zip or postal codes.
Ģ Name Based - Your service areas will consist of a list of place names.
Ģ No Location - Your booking form will not use the "Location" section at all.

If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Name-based locations
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/name-based-location

Name-based locations
Learn how to enable locations based on names instead of ZIP or postal codes.

Last updated on 08 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are name-based locations
Ģ How to enable name-based locations

What are name-based locations?
If your country does not use zip or postal codes, you can instead use "name-based" locations. This will allow you to type or upload a list of location names for your service area.

Then, when customers use your form, they will be able to select their location from a drop-down menu with the options you have listed.

Enabling Name-Based Locations in Store Options
To set name-based locations as the default option for your business, go to: Settings > General > Store Options > General > Location Settings

Expand the "Location Settings" section and select "Name-based", then click Save.

Enabling Name-Based Locations in a Form
To enable name-based locations in your booking form, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings > Options > Edit

Scroll down to the question, "How would you like the system to manage your locations?" and select "Name-based". Click the blue "Save" button to apply the changes.

Adding a New Name-Based Location
To add a new location to your form, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > 1. Locations

Click the blue "Add New" button at the top of the page to create a new location.

You will be brought to the Details tab on an "Add Location" page.

674 New location or Existing location - If you have previously created locations in another form or industry, you can select "Existing location" and that location's details will be automatically filled. Otherwise, select the "New location" option to add a new location to your form.
675 Name of service area - Add a name for the location. The system does not allow for duplicate location names.
676 Time Zone - Select a time zone for your location. This section will show if you have enabled the multiple time zone feature. Click here to learn how to enable this feature.
677 Will you charge a service fee for traveling to the location? - Select "Yes" if you would like to charge an extra fee for clients who book for this location. This fee will be added to their total price.
678 Do you wish to exempt sales tax for this location? -
678.1 Select "Yes" if you do not want to charge sales tax for this location.
678.2 If you select "No", you can later set up your tax options by going to Settings > General > Taxes. Tax rates can be set for each location or you can use one tax rate for all locations. Click here to learn more about enabling taxes in BookingKoala.

Once you have finished setting up your options, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

You will be able to view all of your newly added locations from the Locations tab.

For more information on setting up other kinds of locations, such as zip/postal-code-based locations or merchant locations, click here.



Setting up service fees
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/set-up-service-fees

Setting up service fees
Learn how to charge additional fees for a booking that is entirely paid out to the provider.

Last updated on 17 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What is a "service fee"
Ģ How to add a service fee to your location
Ģ How to change the display name of the service fee

What is a service fee?
A Service Fee is a fee that the merchant charges the customer for having the provider travel to their home or service location to complete the service.

100% of the service fee is paid out to the provider. If there are multiple providers assigned to a booking, the fee is split evenly by the number of providers.

You can always adjust the service fee inside the booking form if you'd like to set it to a different amount for a specific booking under the "Service Fee" section.

Add a Service Fee to Your Location
To add on a service fee to a location, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Locations

From here, click "Options", "Edit" next to the location you'd like to add the fee.

Scroll down until you see "Will you charge a service fee for traveling to the location?" and select "Yes".

Under "How much would you like to charge each customer?", enter the fee amount in the box and then click the blue "Next" button.

Finally, click the blue "Update" button to save the service fee for this location.

Customers will now be charged this fee whenever they book a service in this location.

Change the Name of the Service Fee
If you would like to change the name the customers see for the "service fee", you can do so by going to: Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Store Info" section.

Scroll down to the bottom of this section until you see the question, "Would you like to change the name "Service Fee" to something else inside your store?" and select "Yes".

Then, enter the new name of the service fee into the box below.

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.

Charge Sales Tax on the Service Fee
If your store also charges tax, you can decide whether or not you would like the service fee to be tax-exempt or not. This option is controlled under your Form Settings.

To charge sales tax on your service fee, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Next, click "Options", then "Edit" next to the form you'd like to update.

Scroll down until you see the question, "Would you like to make the service fee taxable?" and select "Yes".

Please note: If you have existing bookings in the system already, this change will only impact new bookings after the setting has been saved.

Then, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page to update your form. Repeat these steps for every form you'd like to charge sales tax on the service fee.



Location dependencies
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-location-dependencies

Location dependencies
Learn how to enable and set up booking form dependencies to charge different rates based on the location of the booking.

Last updated on 16 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are dependencies
Ģ How to enable "Location" dependencies for "Frequencies"
Ģ How to set up "Frequencies" that depend on the "Location"
Ģ How to enable "Location" dependencies for "Service Categories"
Ģ How to set up "Service Categories" that depend on the "Location"
Ģ How to enable "Location" dependencies for "Variables"
Ģ How to set up "Variables" that depend on the "Location"
Ģ How to enable "Location" dependencies for "Exclude Parameters" 
Ģ How to set up "Exclude Parameters" that depend on the "Location"
Ģ How to enable "Location" dependencies for "Items" 
Ģ How to set up "Items" that depend on the "Location"
Ģ How to enable "Location" dependencies for "Add-Ons"
Ģ How to set up "Add-Ons" that depend on the "Location" 
Ģ How to enable "Location" dependencies for "Packages"
Ģ How to set up "Packages" that depend on the "Location" 
Ģ How to enable "Location" dependencies for "Extras"
Ģ How to set up "Extras" that depend on the "Location"
Ģ How to set up "Custom Sections" that depend on the "Location"

What are dependencies?
One of the special features of the booking forms is that you can create "dependencies". When you enable a dependency for a category, you can customize how other categories will display when this option is selected. Simply put, one category's options will depend on the selection(s) in another.

Location is the most versatile category when it comes to dependencies. This is particularly helpful if your business has multiple locations and offers different options based on each location.  

Location-Dependent Frequencies
All forms (1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) have the option to make your frequencies depend on your locations. You may want to set this up if your options for frequency differ from location to location.   

For example, let's say a cleaning business has recently expanded to a new location. Because they are still working on hiring more providers for this location, they only want to allow customers to book one-time appointments for now. They can enable location dependency for their frequencies to make their new location offer only one frequency.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings
To set up location-dependent frequencies, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

679 Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.
680 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Location for the question, "Should the frequencies show based on?" 
681 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Locations in Frequencies
Next, go to the Frequency section to update the location settings for each frequency.
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Frequencies

682 Click "Options", "Edit" to open a frequency.
683 Go to the "Dependencies" tab, then scroll down to the question, "Should the frequency show based on the location?" and select "Yes". Options for each location in the form will appear below.
684 Check off the box next to each location you would like to have this frequency. If you want to hide the frequency from a location, uncheck the box next to its name.  
685 When you are finished, click the blue "Next" button at the bottom of the page.
686 If you'd like to apply these changes to any other industries and forms in your account, you can use the "Apply to Other Forms" section to do so.
687 Finally, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page to update your location.

Location-Dependent Service Categories
All forms (1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) have the option to make your service categories depend on your locations. You may want to set this up if your options for service categories differ from location to location.  

For example, let's say a pet grooming company has opened a new storefront. The new location will only cater to cats and small dogs as it does not have the right-sized equipment for larger pets. Therefore, they will only want their categories for cats and small dogs available when this location is selected. They can enable location dependency for their services to make their new location offer services for only cats and small dogs.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings
To set up location-dependent service categories, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

688 Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.
689 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Location for the question, "Which option(s) should the service category show for?" 
690 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Locations in Service Categories
Next, go to the Service Category section to update the location settings for each frequency.
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Category

691 Click "Options", "Edit" to open a service category.
692 Go to the "Dependencies" tab, scroll down to the question, "Should the service category show based on the location?" and select "Yes". Options for each location in the form will appear below.
693 Check off the box next to each location you would like to have this service category. If you want to hide the category from a location, uncheck the box next to its name.  
694 When you are finished, click the blue "Next" button at the bottom of the page.
695 If you'd like to apply these changes to any other industries and forms in your account, you can use the "Apply to Other Forms" section to do so.
696 Finally, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page to update your location.

Location-Dependent Extras
All forms (1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) have the option to make your extras depend on your locations. You may want to set this up if your options for extras differ from location to location.  

For example, let's say a cleaning business has two locations: San Antonio and Chicago. One of the extras the company offers is basement cleaning. However, almost all homes in San Antonio are built without a basement. If they only want to display the basement extra for their customers in Chicago, they can enable location-dependency for their extras. This way, clients in San Antonio will not see the extra for basement cleaning. 

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings
To set up location-dependent extras, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

697 Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.
698 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Location for the question, "Which option(s) should the service category show for?" 
699 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Extras in Locations
Next, go to the Locations section to update the location settings for your extras.
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Locations

700 Click "Options", "Edit" to open a location.
701 Go to the "Dependencies" tab, then scroll down to the Extras section. Options for each extra in the form will appear below.
702 Check off the box next to each extra you would like to have in this location. If you want to hide the extra from a location, uncheck the box next to its name.  
703 When you are finished, click the blue "Next" button at the bottom of the page.
704 If you'd like to apply these changes to any other industries and forms in your account, you can use the "Apply to Other Forms" section to do so.
705 Finally, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page to update your location.

Location-Dependent Variables
Forms 1 and 4 have the option to make your variables depend on your locations. You may want to set this up if your options for variables differ from location to location.  

For example, let's say a moving company operates in these locations: Montreal, Quebec, in Canada; and Burlington, Vermont, in the United States. One of the variables the company uses for pricing is driving distance. However, Canada measures distance by kilometers while the United States uses miles. If they want their rate per kilometer to display for Canadian customers, but the rate per mile to show for Americans, they can enable location-dependency for their variables. This way, Canadian clients will use "kilometers" on the booking form and Americans will use "miles".

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings
To set up location-dependent variables, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

706 Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.
707 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Location for the question, "Which option(s) should the variables show for?" 
708 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Locations in Variables
Next, go to the Pricing Parameters section to update the location settings for each variable.
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Pricing Parameters

709 Click "Options", "Edit" to open a variable.
710 Go to the Dependencies tab, and scroll down to the question, "Should the variables show based on the location?" and select "Yes". Options for each location in the form will appear below.
711 Check off the box next to each location you would like to have this extra. If you want to hide the extra from a location, uncheck the box next to its name.  
712 When you are finished, click the blue "Update"/"Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Location-Dependent Exclude Parameters
Form 1 has the option to make your exclude parameters depend on your locations. You may want to set this up if your options for exclusion parameters differ from location to location.  

For example, let's say a cleaning business has two locations: San Antonio and Chicago. One of the exclusion variables the company offers is basement cleaning. This means that customers have the option to exclude the basement from the cleaning. However, almost all homes in San Antonio are built without basements, so it wouldn't make sense for this parameter to display. If they only want to display the basement exclusion for their customers in Chicago, they can enable location-dependency for their exclusion parameters. This way, clients in San Antonio will not see the option to exclude basement cleaning. 

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings
To set up location-dependent exclusion parameters, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

713 Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.
714 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Location for the question, "Which option(s) should the exclude parameters show for?" 
715 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Locations in Pricing Parameters
Next, go to the Pricing Parameters section to update the location settings for each exclusion parameter.
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Pricing Parameters

716 Scroll down to to "Exclude Parameters" section and click "Options", "Edit" to open a parameter.
717 Click on the Dependencies tab, scroll down to the question, "Should the exclude parameter show based on the location?" and select "Yes". Options for each location in the form will appear below.
718 Check off the box next to each location you would like to have this exclusion parameter. If you want to hide the parameter from a location, uncheck the box next to its name.  
719 When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Location-Dependent Items
Forms 2 and 3 have the option to make your items depend on your locations. You may want to set this up if your options for items differ from location to location.  

For example, let's say a pet grooming company has opened a new storefront. The new location will only cater to cats and small dogs as it does not have the right-sized equipment for larger pets. Therefore, they will only want the items for cats and small dogs to display when this location is selected. They can enable location dependency for their services to make the new location offer services for only cats and small dogs.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings
To set up location-dependent items, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

720 Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.
721 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Location for the question, "Which option(s) should the items show for?" 
722 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Locations in Items
Next, go to the Items section to update the location settings for each item.
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Items

723 Click "Options", "Edit" to open an item.
724 Scroll down to the question, "Should the items show based on the location?" and select "Yes". Options for each location in the form will appear below.
725 Check off the box next to each location you would like to have this item. If you want to hide the item from a location, uncheck the box next to its name.  
726 When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Location-Dependent Packages
Form 2 has the option to make your packages depend on your locations. You may want to set this up if your options for packages differ from location to location.  

For example, let's say an auto-shop has two locations. The main location offers services for both interior and exterior detailing, but their second location only offers interior detailing. To display just the interior cleaning package for the second location, they can set up location dependency for packages.  

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings
To set up location-dependent packages, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

727 Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.
728 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Location for the question, "Which option(s) should the packages show for?" 
729 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Locations in Packages
Next, go to the Packages section to update the location settings for each package.
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2 > Packages

730 Click "Options", "Edit" to open a package.
731 Open the Dependencies tab, scroll down to the question, "Should the package show based on the location?" and select "Yes". Options for each location in the form will appear below.
732 Check off the box next to each location you would like to have this package. If you want to hide the package from a location, uncheck the box next to its name.  
733 When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Location-Dependent Add-Ons
Forms 2 and 3 have the option to make your add-ons depend on your location(s). You may want to set this up if your options for add-ons differ from location to location.  

For example, let's say an auto-shop has two locations. While both locations offer packages for interior detailing, only the second location has an add-on service for interior leather conditioning. To set up the form so this add-on only appears when the second location is selected, they would enable location-based dependency for their add-on services.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings
To set up location-dependent add-ons, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

734 Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.
735 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Location for the question, "Which option(s) should the add-ons show for?" 
736 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Locations in Add-Ons
Next, go to the Add-Ons section to update the location settings for each add-on.
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Addons

737 Click "Options", "Edit" to open an add-on.
738 Click on to Dependencies tab, scroll down to the question, "Should the add-ons show based on the location?" and select "Yes". Options for each location in the form will appear below.
739 Check off the box next to each location you would like to have this add-on. If you want to hide the add-on from a location, uncheck the box next to its name.  
740 When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.



Setting up frequencies for every form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-frequencies-for-every-form

Setting up frequencies for every form
Learn how to set up and edit frequencies in your booking form.

Last updated on 05 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are frequencies and why are they important to your form
Ģ How to add a new frequency
Ģ How to add an existing frequency to a new industry or form

What are frequencies?
When you are setting up your booking form, you will need to add at least one frequency. Frequencies tell the system how often something occurs and automatically checks your availability so you can schedule without worrying about overlapping appointments.

If you conduct recurring services in your business, you can set up as many frequencies as you'd like.

The current options are:
As of right now, we do not offer frequencies like "every 5th of the month" or "every 14th and 28th of the month", but have noted this as a request for future updates.

If your business does not offer recurring services, that is okay! The only frequency you will need to add with be the "one-time" frequency. This means that every booking corresponds with one appointment. If you only offer one frequency, your customers will not see the frequency drop-down option on your booking page.

Based on those frequencies, the software will be able to automatically schedule all future recurring services and hold that space indefinitely for your customer.

Add a New Frequency
To add a new frequency, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Frequencies

On the frequency page, click the blue "Add New" button at the top of the page.

Next, select the radio button for "Add New" at the top of the Add Frequency page.

Below, there are different fields and options to customize how your frequency works in the system.

Name(s), Description, and Explanation First, add a Name for the frequency. This will be displayed on both the admin and customer sides of the software.

If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below. If you use this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.

Below, there is a box for entering a Description of the frequency. This will only be seen by the admin and staff when on this page.

If you want to add a description the customer can see, check the box next to where it says "Show explanation icon on form". This will add an icon next to the frequency name which the customer can hover over with their curser to view the explanation.

Display On Next, select where you would like to display this frequency. Under "Display On", select one of the following options:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The frequency can be used by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The frequency can only be used by existing customers or admin/staff and will not be displayed for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The frequency can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Set Occurance Time Next, you will need to make a selection under "Set occurrence time".

If the frequency is for one-time appointments, select "One time" from the list and proceed to the next step.

If your frequency will be used to set up automatically repeating appointments, select "Recurring" for the occurrence time.

You will then be prompted to select how often the frequency repeats under the menu for "Frequency repeats every". BookingKoala currently has the following options programmed in for frequencies:

For recurring frequencies, there is also an option to make future appointments shorter than the initial appointment. You may want to utilize this option if it is common in your industry for the initial booking to take longer than the following bookings.

To enable this, select "Yes" below where it says "Shorter job length when the plan is selected."

Enter a percentage of time the future bookings will be shortened based on the original one-time length.

Check the box next to "Exclude first appointment and use original one-time job length" if you would always like the first appointment of a recurring service to be the same length as a one-time appointment.

Some businesses offer discounts based on frequency, with more frequent appointments garnering a higher discount. If you are going to set a Frequency Discount, select whether the discount should apply to all bookings or if the first booking should have the discount excluded.

If you selected "Applicable on all bookings", you will have an additional option to "Charge one-time price if canceled after 1st appointment". If you check this box, the system will automatically charge the client the difference between the one-time rate and the recurring discounted rate if they cancel after only one appointment.

Enable Pop-Up If you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the frequency, check the box next to "Enable popup on selection" and type in the message you would like to display.

You can also customize when the pop-up will display:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.
Ģ Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only, on the front end of the site as well as when they are logged in.
Ģ Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Discount and Default Set an optional Discount for the frequency by entering the amount into the box below, and then select whether the discount will be a fixed amount or percentage.

You can choose to set this frequency as the Default option for customers and admin (that is, it will be automatically selected when they first land on the booking form).

Then, click the "Next" button at the bottom right corner of the page to proceed to the Dependencies tab.

Dependencies
Once you have added frequencies to your booking form, you can choose to set up "dependencies" based on frequency. When you enable a dependency for a category, you customize how other categories will display when this option is selected. Simply put, one category's options will depend on the selection(s) in another.

Frequency dependencies can be set up for many types of form components. For example, let's say you offer multiple recurring frequencies for your cleaning services, such as every-other-weekly, monthly, etc. However, certain service categories are only offered as one-time services. These include deep cleanings, hourly services, and re-clean services. If you are creating a recurring frequency, you will uncheck the boxes next to these categories so customers are unable to see recurring options when scheduling those types of cleanings.

To learn how to set up different service options on a frequency-to-frequency basis, click here.

Also in the dependencies section are the options to add this frequency to other industries and forms. Answer "Yes" for the questions "Would you like to add this location to any other industries/booking forms?" and then check the box(es) next to the industry(ies) and form(s) you would like to add the frequency to.

Providers
When you first create a frequency, you have the option to exclude any providers from that frequency in this tab (this can also be performed from the provider or team's form settings at any time). This optional step is helpful if you know of any providers that do not service this frequency.

Check the box(es) next to the provider(s) you want to exclude from this frequency. This means that the provider will not be able to receive jobs at this frequency unless you visit the provider's form settings and enable the frequency for them.

Once you have finished making your selections, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Add an Existing Frequency
If you have previously added frequencies to another form or industry, you can choose "Add Existing" to import a frequency already in the system but not yet in this form.

A drop-down menu will show you any frequencies that already exist that have not been added to this form yet. Select the one you wish to import and click the blue "Add" button.

You will be redirected to the Add Frequency page where you can make any changes if needed.

Once you have configured those settings, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page. You will see a green system notification in the top right corner letting you know that the frequency has been saved successfully.



Frequency dependencies
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-frequency-dependencies

BookingKoala

Looking for help?

Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides

BookingKoala Help Center

Industries and booking forms

Frequency dependencies

Industries and booking forms

Frequency dependencies
Learn how to enable and set up booking form dependencies to charge different rates based on the frequency of a booking.

Last updated on02 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ What are dependencies?
What are dependencies?
Ģ How to set up service categories that depend on frequencies
How to set up service categories that depend on frequencies
Ģ How to set up extras that depend on frequencies
How to set up extras that depend on frequencies
Ģ How to set up variables that depend on frequencies
How to set up variables that depend on frequencies
Ģ How to set up exclude parameters that depend on frequencies
How to set up exclude parameters that depend on frequencies
Ģ How to set up items that depend on frequencies
How to set up items that depend on frequencies
Ģ How to set up packages that depend on frequencies
How to set up packages that depend on frequencies
Ģ How to set up add-ons that depend on frequencies
How to set up add-ons that depend on frequencies

What are dependencies?
One of the special features of the booking forms is that you can create "dependencies".Ā When you enable a dependency for a category, you can customize how other categories will display when this option is selected.Ā Simply put, one category's options will depend on the selection(s) in another.

Frequency is the second-most versatile category when it comes to dependencies. This is particularly helpful if your business has multiple frequencies and offers different options based on each frequency.

Frequency-Dependent Service Categories
All forms(1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) have the option to make your service categories depend on your frequencies.Ā You may want to set this up if your options for service categories differ depending on which frequency has been selected.

For example, let's say a cleaning business offers residential, commercial, and post-construction services.Ā Residential and commercial customers can book any frequency they would like, however, post-construction services are always scheduled as one-time appointments.Ā To ensure that a client cannot book a recurring post-construction service, the company can enable service categories to depend on frequency. This way, the post-construction service will not display if they have selected a recurring frequency.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings

To set up frequency-dependent service categories, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next toFrequencyfor the question, "Which option(s) should the service category show for?"

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Frequencies in Service Categories

Next, go to theService Categorysection to update the frequency settings for each service category.

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Category

Click "Options", "Edit" to open a service category.

Click on the Dependencies tab, scroll down to the question, "Should the service category show based on the frequency?" and select "Yes". Options for each frequency in the form will appear below.

Check off the box next to each frequency you would like to have this service category. If you want to block a service category from a frequency, uncheck the box next to its name.

When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Frequency-Dependent Extras
All forms(1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) have the option to make yourextrasdepend on your frequencies.Ā You may want to set this up if your options for extras differ based on the frequency of the service.

For example, let's say a cleaning business offers several extra services, one of which is "junk removal".Ā However, junk removal can only be performed for one-time bookings and cannot be added to a recurring service. To ensure that customers cannot add this extra if they are scheduling a recurring booking, they can enable extras to depend on the frequency selected.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings

To set up frequency-dependent extras, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next toFrequencyfor the question, "Which option(s) should the extras show for?"

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Frequencies in Extras

Next, go to theExtrassection to update the frequency settings for each extra.

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Extras

Click "Options", and then "Edit" to open an extra.

Click on theDependenciestab, then scroll down to the question, "Should the extras show based on the frequency?" and select "Yes". Options for each frequency in the form will appear below.

Check off the box next to each frequency you would like to have this extra. If you want to block the extra from a frequency, uncheck the box next to its name.

When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Frequency-Dependent Variables
Forms 1 and 4 have the option to make yourvariablesdepend on your frequencies.ĀYou may want to set this up if your options for variables differ based on the frequency of the service.

For example, let's say a cleaning company offers discounts based on how often the property is serviced. Instead of applying a frequency discount to all selected variables, they use custom prices for each variable per frequency.

For the variable "bedrooms", the rates are:

Ģ $40 for one bedroom for a one-time booking
$40 for one bedroom for a one-time booking
Ģ $38 for one bedroom for monthly bookings.
$38 for one bedroom for monthly bookings.
Ģ $35 for one bedroom for every other weekly bookings.
$35 for one bedroom for every other weekly bookings.
Ģ $30 for one bedroom for weekly bookings.
$30 for one bedroom for weekly bookings.

For the variable "bathrooms", the rates are:

Ģ $70 for one bathroom for a one-time booking
$70 for one bathroom for a one-time booking
Ģ $66 for one bathroom for monthly bookings.
$66 for one bathroom for monthly bookings.
Ģ $61 for one bathroom for every other weekly bookings.
$61 for one bathroom for every other weekly bookings.
Ģ $57 for one bathroom for weekly bookings.
$57 for one bathroom for weekly bookings.

Because the frequency discounts are not a consistent percentage or flat rate, they have instead created variables with custom pricing for each frequency.

When the customer selects the frequency, the correct variables and pricing are displayed.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings

To set up frequency-dependent variables, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", and then "Edit" to open the form.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next toFrequencyfor the question, "Which option(s) should the variables show for?"

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Frequency in Variables

Next, go to thePricing Parameterssection to update the frequency settings for each variable.

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Pricing Parameters

Click "Options", and then "Edit" to open a variable.

Click on theDependenciestab, then scroll down to the question, "Should the variables show based on the frequency?" and select "Yes". Options for each frequency in the form will appear below.

Check off the box next to each frequency you would like to offer for the variable. If you want to block the frequency from a variable, uncheck the box next to its name.

When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Frequency-Dependent Exclude Parameters
Form 1 has the option to make yourexclude parametersdepend on your frequencies.ĀĀYou may want to set this up if your options for exclusion parameters differ depending on which frequency is selected.

Let's use the cleaning company from the previous section as an example.ĀInstead of applying a frequency discount to all selected variables, they use custom prices for each variable per frequency.

For the variable "bedrooms", the rates are:

Ģ $40 for one bedroom for a one-time booking
$40 for one bedroom for a one-time booking
Ģ $38 for one bedroom for monthly bookings.
$38 for one bedroom for monthly bookings.
Ģ $35 for one bedroom for every other weekly bookings.
$35 for one bedroom for every other weekly bookings.
Ģ $30 for one bedroom for weekly bookings.
$30 for one bedroom for weekly bookings.

This company allows customers to exclude areas from the booking. Whenever an area is excluded, they credit back the cost of the area not being cleaned.Ā Since the price for a one-bedroom varies based on the frequency, they have created four separate exclusion parameters for one bedroom.

Ģ $40 credit for not cleaning one bedroom for a one-time booking
$40 credit for not cleaning one bedroom for a one-time booking
Ģ $38 credit for not cleaning one bedroom for monthly bookings.
$38 credit for not cleaning one bedroom for monthly bookings.
Ģ $35 credit for not cleaning one bedroom for every other weekly bookings.
$35 credit for not cleaning one bedroom for every other weekly bookings.
Ģ $30 credit for not cleaning one bedroom for weekly bookings.
$30 credit for not cleaning one bedroom for weekly bookings.

The exclusion parameters will credit back the correct amount after they have selected a frequency.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings

To set up frequency-dependent exclusion parameters, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", and then "Edit" to open the form.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next toFrequencyfor the question, "Which option(s) should the exclude parameters show for?"

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Frequency in Pricing Parameters

Next, go to thePricing Parameterssection to update the frequency settings for each exclusion parameter.

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Pricing Parameters

Scroll down to to "Exclude Parameters"section and click "Options", then "Edit" to open a parameter.

Open theDependenciestab, scroll down to the question, "Should the exclude parameter show based on the frequency?" and select "Yes". Options for each frequency in the form will appear below.

Check off the box next to each frequency you would like to have this exclusion parameter. If you want to hide the parameter from a frequency, uncheck the box next to its name.

When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Frequency-Dependent Items
Forms 2 and 3 have the option to make youritemsdepend on your frequencies.ĀYou may want to set this up if your options for items differ based on how often the service will take place.

For example, let's say a pet grooming business offers multiple frequencies for how often a pet can be scheduled for a service.Ā All cats, small dogs, and medium dogs can be scheduled for any of the options.Ā However, they do not offer "every two months" for large dogs because breeds of this size require more frequent grooming.Ā To make sure the option for "every two months" only displays for cats, small dogs, and medium dogs, they can enable dependency on frequencies for these "items".

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings

To set up frequency-dependent items, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", "Edit" to open the form.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next toFrequencyfor the question, "Which option(s) should the items show for?"

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Frequencies in Items

Next, go to theItemssection to update the frequency settings for each item.

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Items

Click "Options", then "Edit" to open an item.

Click on theDependenciestab, then scroll down to the question, "Should the item show based on the frequency?" and select "Yes". Options for each frequency in the form will appear below.

Check off the box next to each frequency you would like to display this item. If you want to block an item from a frequency, uncheck the box next to its name.

When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Frequency-Dependent Packages
Form 2 has the option to make yourpackagesdepend on your frequencies.ĀYou may want to set this up if your options for packages differ based on how often the service is offered.

For example, let's say an auto shop offers both repair and detailing services.Ā All of the detailing services can be scheduled either as a one-time or recurring booking, however, repair-based packages are only booked as needed.Ā To ensure that the detailing packages have frequency options but the repair packages do not, they can enable frequency-dependent packages.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings

To set up frequency-dependent packages, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", and then "Edit" to open the form.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next toFrequencyfor the question, "Which option(s) should the packages show for?"

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Frequencies in Packages

Next, go to thePackagessection to update the frequency settings for each package.

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2 > Packages

Click "Options", and then "Edit" to open a package.

Click on theDependenciestab, scroll down to the question, "Should the package show based on the frequency?" and select "Yes". Options for each frequency in the form will appear below.

Check off the box next to each frequency you would like this package to display for. If you want to hide the package from a frequency, uncheck the box next to its name.

When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Frequency-Dependent Add-Ons
Forms 2 and 3 have the option to make youradd-onsdepend on your frequencies.ĀYou may want to set this up if your options for add-ons differ based on how often a service is offered.

For example, let's say an auto shop offers an add-on service for deep cleaning of carpets and car mats.Ā If a customer has signed up for a one-time service, this add-on costs $30.Ā However, if the customer schedules any type of recurring service, this add-on has a reduced rate of $25 per booking.Ā To ensure that the add-on is always $25 for recurring services, they can enable frequency-based add-ons.

Enable Dependency in the Form Settings

To set up frequency-dependent add-ons, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", and then "Edit" to open the form.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next toFrequencyfor the question, "Which option(s) should the add-ons show for?"

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Update Frequencies in Add-Ons

Next, go to theAdd-Onssection to update the frequency settings for each add-on.

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Addons

Click "Options", and then"Edit" to open an add-on.

Click on theDependenciestab, scroll down to the question, "Should the add-ons show based on the frequency?" and select "Yes". Options for each frequency in the form will appear below.

Check off the box next to each frequency you would like to have this add-on. If you want to hide the add-on from a frequency, uncheck the box next to its name.

When you are finished, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Related Articles

Setting up frequencies for every form

Learn how to set up and edit frequencies in your booking form.

Setting up service categories for every form



Setting up service categories for every form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-service-categories-for-every-form

BookingKoala

Back To BookingKoala

Search

Open menu

Looking for help?

Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides

BookingKoala Help Center

Industries and booking forms

Setting up service categories for every form

Industries and booking forms

Setting up service categories for every form

Learn more about service categories, including how to set them up in your booking form and how to modify categories.

Last updated on

29 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

What are service categories

How to add a new service category to your form

How to reorder your service categories

How to edit, duplicate, delete, archive, or unarchive a service category.

What are service categories?

Service Categories

are the broader categories for the services that your business offers.Ā If you offer multiple services, the customer will be able to browse through them all and select the service they are interested in to see pricing.

For example, if your business is in the office cleaning industry, you may have service categories based on the type ofĀjob location:

Storefront Cleanings

Warehouse Cleanings

Church Cleanings

To work, every form must have at least one service category.

Please note: If you only have one service category (for example, house cleaning or cat grooming"), the service category box will not display as an option on the form.Ā If you have more than one service category, a drop-down menu will appear on the booking form for you or your customers to select which services to look at.

Add a New Service Category

To add a new service category, Go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Category

At the top of the "

Service Category

" page, click the blue

"Add New"

button.

This will bring you to the

Details

tab on theĀ"

Add Service Category

" page.

Details Tab

Name

First, add a

Name

for the service category. This will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.

If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "

Different on customer end

" and enter the name in the box below.Ā If you used this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.

Description

Below, there is a box for entering a

Description

of the service category. This will only be seen by you or other admins when viewing this page.

Explanation

If you would like to add a description that the customer can see, check the box next to where it says "

Show explanation icon on form

". This will add an icon next to the service category name in which the customer can hover over with their curser to view the explanation.

Enable Pop-Up

If you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the service category, check the box next to "

Enable popup on selection

" and type in the message you would like to display.

You can also customize when the pop-up will

display:

Customer frontend, backend & admin

Ģ The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.

Customer backend & admin

Ģ The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.

Customer only (frontend & backend)

Ģ The pop-up will display for the customer only, on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.

Admin only

Ģ The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Display On

Next, select where you would like to display this service category.Ā Under "

Display On

", select one of the following options:

Customer frontend, backend & admin

Ģ The service category can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.

Customer backend & admin

Ģ The service category can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.

Admin only

Ģ The service category can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Display Service Length on Customer End

"

Display service length on customer end"

allows you to select if/when you would like to display the service length on your booking forms and confirmation emails. Your form will only display a service length if you set time lengths for your pricing parameters.Ā This will be covered more later on in the

Pricing Parameters

section.

Customer frontend, backend & admin

Ģ The service length will be displayed for potential customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff.

Customer backend & admin

Ģ The service length will only be displayed for existing customers or admin/staff, but will not display for new customers on the front-end.

Admin only

Ģ The time length will only be seen by admin or staff when making bookings.

This allows you to show the length of the service to the customer in the summary box on the booking form and their confirmation emails.

You also have the option to add a

tooltip

next to the service length on the customer end of the booking form.Ā This will insert an icon next to the service length in the booking summary box. When the customer hovers over the icon with their curser, your message will be displayed.

Check the box next to "

Enable tooltip for service length on customer end

" and enter the message in the box below.

Display Service Length on Provider End

You can also decide if you would like to display the service length so providers can see it.ĀTo enable this, select

"Yes"

under "

Display service length on provider end

".Ā You can also add a

tooltip

about the service length for the provider's reference.

Allow Editing by Customers

For the question, "

Can customers edit this service?

" select "

Yes

" if you would like to allow customers to make changes to their services after the booking has been scheduled.

If you select "

No

", this option allows customers to make only minimal changes to their booking, like adding a tip, parking payment, or notes for the provider or admin. However, they will not be able to make changes to the services they are signed up for.

Will you charge a service fee for this service category?

This questionĀallows you to charge the customer the service fee associated with their location (if you have set up service fees for your locations).Ā Service fees can be edited in the

Locations

section.

Expedited Charge (Same Day)

Check the box next to "

Expedited Charge (Same Day)

" if you would like to charge an additional fee for any customer who books a same-day appointment if you have same-day booking enabled in your

Store Options

.Ā You can also set text to display when the expedited charge is applied so the customer understands what the fee is for.

Cancelation Fee

Check the box next to

"Cancellation Fee"

to charge a cancellation fee when a customer cancel's their service. The cancelation fee can be a fixed amount or a percentage of the booking's total cost.

To further customize the circumstances in which a cancelation fee will be applied, go to

Settings > General > Store Options > General Tab

and scroll down to the

Cancelation

section.

Set Service Category Price

If you would like to add a "base price" to the service category, check the box next to "

Set service category price

".Ā This amount will be the starting point for the customer's total if they select this service category.

Set Service Category Time

If you would like to set a time length for this category, check the box next to "

Set service category time

".ĀThis will set a "base time" for the service. For example, if you enter 1 hour here, the appointment's length will be increased by/start at 1 hour long.

Please note: This option will not work if you have selected "yes" for "Is it an hourly service?" which is discussed more below.

Set Minimum Price

You can also set a

minimum price and/or a minimum time

for the service category. This means the customers booking must meet these thresholds for them to submit the form. If the customer goes to save the booking and the minimums have not been met, they will get a pop-up message saying the minimum has not been met.

On which amount do you want to check the minimum price?

Select "

Discounted

total

" if the minimum should be compared to the discounted total of the booking,

Select "

Final

total

" if the minimum should be compared to the final total of the booking.

Minimum Price

For example, if you set your

minimum price

to $100, the customer must add services that total to at least $100 for them to book.Ā If they do not, they will see the message you added in the "

Text to Display

" box.

Check minimum price for complete recurring schedule

Check the box next to this option if you would like to check the entire recurring service against the minimum price requirement.

For example, if the amount for the first booking in a recurring series is $150, and the second booking in the schedule is $100l; but the "minimum price" for the service category is set to $120, the system will prevent the addition of the booking and will display a "minimum price" error message.

Minimum Time

If you set your

minimum time

to 2 hours, the customer must add services that have a total length of 2 hours or longer for them to book.Ā If they do not, they will see the message you added in the "

Text to Display

" box.

Override Provider Pay

Check the box next to "

Override provider pay

" if you would like to pay tour providers a special rate whenever they do a job in this service category. The pay can be set to an hourly rate or a flat fee.

For example, some businesses in the home-cleaning industry do re-cleans for customers who are unsatisfied with the initial work. If the business is sending the same cleaner back to touch up their work, they could use this option to override their pay by putting in $0 in this box. This way, the provider will not receive extra pay for going back to complete the original job.

Is it an hourly service?Ā (Form 1)

This option is only available if you are using

form 1

.

If you will like to make this service category an hourly service, meaning the price will depend on how many hours the service takes, select "

Yes

" under "

Is it an hourly service?

"Ā Enter the

hourly price

into the box below.

Next, you will need to answer "

Would you like to calculate the price of an hourly service based on a customer time or based on the pricing parameters time?

"

If you would like the customer to enter the total number of hours they would like to book for, select "

Based on custom time

". If you would like the total time to be automatically calculated using the time lengths set in your pricing parameters, select "

Based on the pricing parameters time

".

If you selected "Based on a custom time", you can decide whether your extras will be charged in addition to the hourly rate or if they will be overridden by the hourly rate. Select "

Yes

" to charge the extras on top of the hourly rate.

Hourly Price (Form 5)

This option is only available if you are using

form 5

.

Enter the rate per hour into the box just below where it says "

Hourly price

".

Override Pricing

If you did not make the service category an hourly service, you can instead choose to use the "

Override pricing

" option. Click "

yes

" and enter the price you would like to charge when this service category is selected. This means that regardless of which pricing parameters the customer selects, their total will always be this rate.

Can this job be declined?

If you have

"Accept Same-Day Jobs"

or

"Accept All Jobs"

set for your scheduling settings, there will be an additional setting for your service category. This setting is located under:

Settings > General > Store Options > Scheduling

Your form will have the question "

Can this job be declined?

"

If you select

"Yes"

, theĀprovider will have the option to decline the job if they do not want to take it.Ā If you select

"No"

, then the job will be automatically assigned to the next available provider.

Extras

At the bottom of the page below where it says "

Extras

", you can decide if you would like to enable

Tip

or

Parking

options for your customers. This will allow the customer to add a tip or payment towards the provider's parking fee (if applicable) to their booking. 100% of the amount for a tip or parking goes to the provider.

Tip

To enable Tips, click the red "

Disabled

" button and toggle it to "

Enabled

".

Choose if you want the tip to be added to the

First

booking of a recurring service, or for

Every

booking.Ā You can also decide where you would like the tip option to be displayed:

Customer frontend, backend & admin

Ģ Tips can be added by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff.

Customer backend & admin

Ģ Tips can only be added from the customer once they are logged into their account, or by an admin/staff.

Admin only

Ģ Only the admin and staff will be able to add a tip for a booking.

Parking

If you enable Parking

,

this allows customers to reimburse providers who have to pay for parking when traveling to the customer's location. This option is used a lot in major cities where parking may be limited and thus more expensive.

You can also customize whether parking fees will be saved to just the

First

booking or

Every

booking in a recurring service, as well as where the parking option will be displayed for customers and the admin.

Once you finish this page, click the blue

Next

button at the bottom right corner.

This will direct you to the

Dependencies

tab.

Dependencies Tab

The first question in the dependencies tab will only appear if you have more than one form for your industry.

If you would like to add this new service category to other booking forms in this industry, check the box(es) next to the form(s) you'd like to add it to.

Enable Dependencies from Form Settings

When you enable

dependencies

for a variable, you gain the ability to associate that variable with select options on the booking form instead of using the same variable for every location, service category, frequency, etc.

Dependencies are enabled under the Form Settings section.Ā Click the link to enable dependencies for your service categories.

Once you are directed to the Form Settings section, select "

Options

" then "

Edit

" to view the form settings for the form.

Scroll down towards the bottom of the page and check off the boxes next to the dependencies you would like to enable.

For example, if you would like to have different service categories depending on the client's city, you would scroll down to the option "

Which option(s) should the service category show for?

" and check the box next to "

Location

".

Or, let's say your service categories have different frequency options.Ā In this case, you would check the box next to "

Frequency

" to enable dependencies forĀ"

Which option(s) should the service category show for?

"

Click the "

Save

" button and then you can resume work on your service category's dependencies section.

Enable Service Category Dependencies

To enable dependencies under the service category's Dependencies tab, select "

Yes

" for the question "

Should the service category show based on the [frequency/location]?

" and then check the boxes next to the [frequencies/locations] you want to associate with this service category.

In this example, the service category will only be displayed for the frequency that has been selected in the dependencies section.

Depending on your form, some dependencies will be enabled by default so you can more quickly set up common dependencies.

Form 1 has dependencies enabled for variables, exclude parameters, extras, and custom sections.

Form 2 has dependencies enabled for items, packages, add-ons, extras, and custom sections.

Form 3 has dependencies enabled for items, add-ons, extras, and custom sections.

Form 4 has dependencies enabled for variables, extras, and custom sections.

Form 5 has dependencies enabled for extras and custom sections.

Once you have finished setting up your dependencies for your service categories, click the "

Next

" button at the bottom of the page.

Providers Tab

The final tab in the service category creation process is the

Providers

tab.Ā This tab is used to

exclude

or block providers from servicing this service category.Ā For example, let's say this service category is called the "Extra Heavy Duty" and you know there are a few providers who do not provide this service, you would check the boxes next to their names.

When finished with all your selections, click the blue

"Save Category"

button at the bottom of the page.

Changing the Service Category Order

If you have added multiple service categories, you can update the order in which they are displayed on your booking form. Go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Service Category

To change the order of your categories, click and hold a category to drag and drop it into a new position in the list.

Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "

Update Priority

" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.

How to Edit, Duplicate, Archive, or Delete a Service Category

If you ever want to make further adjustments to a service category, first goĀto:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Service Category

Edit

To edit an existing service category, click on "

Options

" and select "

Edit

".

You will be brought to the

Edit Service Category

page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like.Ā Just be sure to click the blue "

Save Category

" button to save any changes.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the service category has been updated successfully.

Duplicate

To make a copy of an existing service category, click on "

Options

" and select "

Edit

". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this service category. Click "

Yes

" to proceed.

The phrase "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new category so you can tell it apart from the original. If you change the name, be sure to pick something different from the original name.

Once you have finished making your adjustments, click the blue "

Save Category

" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the service category has been duplicated successfully.

Delete

If you want to permanently delete a service category from your form, click on "

Options

" and select "

Delete

". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to delete this service category. Click "

Yes

" to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the service category has been deleted successfully.

Archive

If you would prefer to keep your service but not use it for our form right now, youĀcan instead choose to

Archive

it. Once a service category has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin can select it in the booking form.

To archive a service category, click on "

Options

" and select "

Archive

". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this service category. Click "

Yes

" to proceed.

The service category will now be listed under the "

Archived

" menu.

Unarchive

If you would ever like to start using an archived service category again, you can easily "unarchive it". Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "

Archived

".

Click on "

Options

" and select "

Unarchive

" next to the category you would like to resume.Ā A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this service category. Click "

Yes

" to proceed.

The service category will be moved back to the "

Active

" category listing. You will now be able to use this category in your booking form again.

Related Articles

Setting up service fees

Learn how to charge additional fees for a booking that is entirely paid out to the provider.

Setting up your store options "General" tab

Learn how to change your store name, domain, currency, customer payment options, and other general settings.

Did you find this article helpful?

Yes

No

Previous

Setting up pricing parameters for form 1

Next



Setting up pricing parameters for form 1
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-pricing-parameters-for-form-1

Setting up pricing parameters for form 1
Learn more about pricing parameters in Form 1, including how to set up variables, variable categories, and exclude parameters for your booking form

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What Variables, variable categories, and exclude parameters are
Ģ How to set up pricing for Form 1
Ģ How to add, modify, and change the order of variable categories
Ģ How to add, modify, and change the order of variables
Ģ How to add, modify, and change the order of excluded parameters

What are "pricing parameters"?
Pricing Parameters are the variables used to calculate the price (or estimate) for your services.

In Form 1, pricing parameters come in the form of variables and variable categories. Variable categories are a topic or subject that contains a list of options called variables. Variables can be set up to have a specific cost and/or length of time.

Form 1 can have more than one variable category. In this case, the booking total is calculated by adding the price and/or length of time associated with each selection together.

For example, the form pictured above has three variable categories: "Bedrooms", "Bathrooms", and "Sq Ft" (square footage).
Ģ The variables for "Bedrooms" are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. These are the total number of bedrooms.
Ģ The variables for "Bathrooms" are 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, and 7.5. These are the total number of bathrooms.
Ģ The options for "Sq Ft" are not depicted but the default selection is "1 - 999 Sw Ft".

Form 1 also allows you to add "exclude parameters", or variables designed to credit the customer when they remove a service from their order. Exclude parameters work similarly to variables except they subtract the variable's pricing and/or timing data from the booking total.

In this example, the default exclusion parameter section for the home cleaning industry reads "This Is A Partial Cleaning Only". Once the box is checked, icons representing each parameter are revealed. In this case, customers can exclude bedrooms, full bathrooms, half bathrooms, kitchens, living rooms, or the basement from the booking.

Variables, variable categories, and excluded parameters can be added to your form at any time. Any variables that came with your industry's default booking form can be edited, archived, re-activated, or deleted.

How to Add and Modify Variable Categories
The first step in setting up your form's pricing parameters will be to create a new variable category or edit the existing variable category. To begin, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameter Click on the orange "Manage Variables" button on the top right corner of the page.

Add a New Variable Category
Click on the blue "Add New"button to add a new variable category.
Type in the variable category'sname, then click the blue "Save"button. A green system alert will appear in the top right corner confirming the category has been saved.
Repeat these steps to add other variable categories to your form.

Edit a Variable Category
To edit an existing variable category, click "Options" and select "Edit". Enter the new category name into the box and then click the blue "Save" button.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the variable category has been updated successfully.

Reordering the Variable Categories
You can change the order of the variable categories on your booking form.
741 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
742 Click on the orange "Manage Variables" button.
743 Click and hold anywhere on the category's row to drag it into a new position in the list.
744 Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.
745 A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.

Delete a Variable Category
If you'd like to delete a variable category, click on "Options" and select "Delete". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to delete this variable. Click "Yes" to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the pricing parameter category has been updated successfully.

How to Add and Modify Variables
Once you are finished setting up your variable categories, you can proceed back to the main Pricing Parameter section to begin adding your variables. Please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameter

Add a Variable: Details Tab
Click the blue "Add New"button at the top of the page.
You will be redirected to the "Details" tab on the "Add Variable" page.
First, add aNamefor the new variable. This will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.
If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below. If you use this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.
For example, if you are usingform 1 and use bathrooms as one of your variable categories, you may enter "1 bathroom" for the admin/staff end but just want to display "1" on the customer's end.
Below the name(s), there is a place to enter aDescriptionof the variable. This is only seen by the admin/staff with permission to edit the variable.
Next, select whichvariable categoryyou would like to list this variable under. Click the variable category drop-down menu to select an existing category. If you only have one variable category, it will be selected by default.
You can also add a new variable category directly from inside this page by clicking the blue "Add Variable Category" link.
Check the box next to "Show explanation icon on form" if you would like to add an explanation icon next to the variable on the form. The explanation is displayed when the user hovers over the icon with their cursor.
If you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the variable, check the box next to "Enable pop-up on selection" and type in the message you would like to display.
You can also customize when the pop-up will display. The options are:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.
Ģ Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only: on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.
Ģ Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Next, under the "Display" section, select an option for which users will be able to see this variable on the booking form. The options are:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The variable can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The variable can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The variable can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Near the bottom of the page, set up the price and time for the variable.
Ģ If your industry uses service areas, there will be an "S.A." label just above these boxes.
Ģ If you have a storefront or office, there will be an "M.L." (merchant location) label instead.
Ģ If your business uses both service areas and merchant locations, both options will be provided. This allows you to set different prices for service areas versus store locations.

For the variable's price, enter how much it costs to quote/service just this option.
Ģ If a cleaning business charges $20.00 for homes with 1 bathroom, their booking form would have a variable called "1" and the price would be set to $20.00.
Ģ If they charge $30.00 for homes with 2 bathrooms, their form would have a second variable called "2" and the price would be set to $30.00.

For the variable's time, enter how much time it takes to complete/service just this option. If you do not want any time associated with the variable, select "0" under the "Seconds" menu.
Adding time lengths to your variables helps estimate the job length and ensures more accurate scheduling if you check the length against the providers' availability.
Just like with pricing, the length of each variable is added together to come up with the total estimated job length. If a customer selects variables from each category that equal 20 minutes, 40 minutes, and 30 minutes, the booking's estimated length will be 90 minutes (1.5 hours) long.
At the bottom of the first page, there is a checkbox next to the word "Default". Check this option if you want a specific variable to be the default choice for its variable category on the booking form.
If no variable is set as the default, the form will display the variables in order of priority as set in the pricing parameters section (covered in an upcoming section).
Once you have finished making your selections, click the blue"Next" button at the bottom of the page.

Add a Variable: Dependencies Tab
The next tab in the "Add Variable Page" is called the "Dependencies" tab.
When you enabledependencies for a variable, you gain the ability to associate that variable with select options on the booking form instead of using the same variable for every location, service category, frequency, etc.
Ģ A. Click this link to enable variable dependencies on frequency, service category, and/or location Dependencies must be enabled under the Form Settings section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings. This box will not display if dependencies are enabled for all possible options.
Ģ B. Options for dependencies on exclusion parameters will be displayed here. If you have not added any exclusion parameters yet, click this link to open a new tab and launch the "Add Exclude Parameter" page.
Ģ C. Options for dependencies on extras will be displayed here. If you have not added any extras yet, click this link to open a new tab and launch the "Add Extra" page.

Once dependencies are enabled, any options that have been added to each section will be displayed next to a checkbox. If the box is checked, the variable will display as an option for that particular selection. If the box is not checked, the variable will not be displayed for that selection.
Once you are finished setting up your dependencies, click the blue"Next" button at the bottom of the page.

Add a Variable: Providers Tab
The final tab, called "Providers", is only visible when you add a new variable and cannot be accessed after the variable has been saved. This is because this section is used to block or exclude providers from accepting/being scheduled with bookings that contain this variable.
To use this section, check the box next to the name(s) of the provider(s) you do not want to receive jobs with this variable.
For example, if this variable is called "5", as in "5 bedrooms", you would check off any providers who would not want to service homes with 5 bedrooms.
This section will only display if you have enabled the option for provider availability to be based on the selections made on the booking form.
At the bottom of the page, click the blue "Save" button to add the new variable to your form.
If your form has more than one variable, repeat these steps until you have added one or more variables for each of your variable categories.

Duplicate a Variable
If you are creating a list of variables that have similar categories, prices, or settings, the duplicate option can be used to make a copy of an existing variable.
746 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
747 Select "Options" next to the variable you'd like to copy.
748 Click "Duplicate".
749 A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this variable. Click "Yes" to proceed.
750 The word "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new variable so you can tell it apart from the original.
751 Once you have finished making any adjustments, click the blue "Save" button at the end of the steps to update the variable.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the variable has been duplicated successfully.

Edit a Variable
752 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
753 Select "Options" next to the variable you'd like to edit.
754 Click "Edit".
755 You will be brought to the Edit Variable page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like.
756 Click the blue "Save" button to save any changes.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the variable has been updated successfully.Important note:If you edit a variable's price or length of time while there are active or pending bookings/booking charges using the variable, those existing bookings will retain the original rate. All new bookings will use the new price and/or time.
To use the new variable for existing bookings, the booking can be edited, and the new variable can be selected instead of the current option, which will say "Archived" next to it.

Archive a Variable
To manually archive a variable, go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
757 Select "Options" next to the variable you'd like to archive.
758 Select "Archive".
759 A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this variable. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The variable will now be listed under the "Archived" menu. Once a variable has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin/staff can see it on the booking form unless it was already selected for an existing booking.

Unarchive a Variable
If you would ever like to start using an archived variable again, you can easily "unarchive" it.
760 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
761 Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Archived".
762 Select "Options" next to the variable you'd like to unarchive.
763 Select "Unarchive".
764 A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this variable. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The variable will be moved back to the "Active" pricing parameter listing. You and your customers will now be able to see and use the variable again on the booking form.

Reordering the Variables
You can change the order of the variables on your booking form.
765 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
766 Click and hold anywhere on a variable's row to drag it into a new position in the list.
767 Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.Important note: Please be sure you are clicking the "Update Priority" button below all of your variables, and not the one below the exclude parameters, as this section has its own "Update Priority" option.

How to Add and Modify Exclude Parameters
Once you are finished setting up the variables, you can proceed with setting up your exclude parameters (if your form uses this type of variable). Go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameter

Add an Exclude Parameter: Details Tab
To begin, scroll down to the bottom of the pricing parameters page and locate the "Exclude Parameters" section. Click the blue "Add New" button.
You will be redirected to the "Details" tab on the "Add Exclude Parameter" page.
First, add aNamefor the exclude parameter type. This name will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.
If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below. If you use this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.
Below the name(s), there is a place to enter aDescriptionof the excluded parameter. This is only seen by the admin/staff with permission to edit the parameter.
Check the box next to "Show explanation icon on form" if you would like to add an explanation icon next to the exclude parameter on the booking form. The explanation is displayed when the user hovers over the icon with their cursor.
Below the explanation box, select where you would like to display this exclusion parameter. Under "Display", select one of the following options:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The parameter can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The parameter can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The parameter can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

If you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the exclude parameter, check the box next to "Enable pop-up on selection" and type in the message you would like to display.
You can also customize when the pop-up will display. The options are:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.
Ģ Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only: on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.
Ģ Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Near the bottom of the page, set up the price and time for the exclusion parameter.
Ģ If your industry uses service areas, there will be an "S.A." labeled just above these boxes.
Ģ If you have a storefront or office, there will be an "M.L." (merchant location) label instead.
Ģ If your business uses both service areas and merchant locations, both sections will be provided. This allows you to set different prices for service areas versus store locations.

For the parameter's Price, enter how much the service total will be reduced by the parameter.
For example, if the exclusion parameter for "Bedrooms" is set to $20, the customer's rate will be lowered by $20 when they click on the "Bedrooms" exclude parameter icon. If the original service total was $100, it will now be reduced to $80 total.
For the parameter'sTime, enter how much time will be subtracted from the booking's total estimated length of time.
For example, if the exclusion time for "Bedrooms" is set to 15 minutes, the total service length will be shortened by 15 minutes when the customer clicks this exclude parameter's icon. If the initial service length was 60 minutes, it will now be reduced to 45 minutes.
If you do not want the extra to add any time, set the minutes box to "0".
After setting the time and price, decide if you would like to make this parameterQuantity Based. This option allows you to give the customers a way to select how many times they want to exclude this parameter.
You can set amaximumof up to 50 units if the parameter is quantity-based. To do so, click the drop-down menu and select the highest number of times a customer can apply this exclusion.
For example: in the home cleaning industry, if a customer has a 3-bedroom home and they do not want 2 of those bedrooms cleaned, the customer can select this parameter and exclude two total bedrooms. Then, their total will be reduced by the parameter's price/time twice. They can also set a maximum of 3, meaning the customer cannot exclude more than three total bedrooms.
Under the "Select icon" section, click the icon to select a default icon from the system, or click "Browse" to pick a file saved on your device.
Please note: The image size should not be more than 300x300 pixels or it will be automatically resized to fit those constraints. The allowed image types are JPEG, JPG, PNG, and GIF.
At the bottom of the tab, select one of the following options for the exclude parameter's default behavior when it comes to recurring bookings. The options are:
Ģ Apply to all bookings - This means that if a customer selects this parameter for a recurring service, it will be included in every booking.
Ģ Apply only to the first appointment- This means the parameter will only be applied to the first booking in a recurring service.
Please note: You can always change whether the parameter will be included in the recurring service or just the first appointment on a case-by-case basis by editing the booking and using the "View Recurring Items" button located with the rest of the admin booking form buttons.
Once you reach the bottom of the first tab, click the blue "Next" button.

Add an Exclude Parameter: Dependencies Tab
The next tab in the "Add Exclude Parameter" page is called the "Dependencies" tab.
When you enabledependenciesfor an exclude parameter, you can associate that parameter with specific options in the booking form as opposed to using the same variable for each location, service category, frequency, etc.
If this tab does not appear to have any options, click the blue "Click Here" link to enable variable dependencies on frequency, service category, variables, and/or location.
Dependencies must be enabled under theForm Settingssection (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings.
The "Click Here" box will not display if dependencies are enabled for all possible options.
Once dependencies are enabled, any options that have been added to each section will be displayed next to a checkbox. If the box is checked, the variable will display as an option for that particular selection. If the box is not checked, the variable will not be displayed for that selection.
Once you are finished setting up your dependencies, click the blue"Next" button at the bottom of the page.

Add an Exclude Parameter: Providers Tab
The last tab, called "Providers", is only visible when you are adding a new exclusion parameter and cannot be accessed after the variable has been saved. This is because this section is used to block or exclude providers from accepting/being scheduled with bookings that contain this variable.
To use this section, check the box next to the name(s) of the provider(s) you do not want to receive jobs with this exclusion parameter.
This section will only display if you have enabled the option for provider availability to be based on the selections made on the booking form.
At the bottom of the page, click the blue "Save" button to add the new variable to your form.
If your form has more than one exclusion parameter, repeat these steps until you have added one or more variables for each of your variable categories.

Duplicate an Exclude Parameter
If you are creating multiple exclusion parameters that have similar names, amounts, or settings, the "duplicate" option can be used to make a copy of an existing variable.
768 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
769 Select "Options" next to the exclude parameter you'd like to copy.
770 Click "Duplicate".
771 A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this parameter. Click "Yes" to proceed.
772 The word "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new exclude parameter so you can tell it apart from the original.
773 Once you have finished making any adjustments, click the blue "Save" button at the end of the steps to update the parameter.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the exclude parameter has been updated successfully.

Edit an Exclude Parameter
774 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
775 Select "Options" next to the exclude parameter you'd like to edit.
776 Click "Edit".
777 You will be brought to the Edit Exclude Parameter page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like.
778 Click the blue "Save" button to save any changes.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the exclude parameter has been successfully updated.Important note:If you edit an exclude parameter's price or length of time while there are active or pending bookings/booking charges using the parameter, those existing bookings will retain the original rate. All new bookings will use the new price and/or time.
To use the new parameter for existing bookings, the booking can be edited, and the new parameter can be selected instead of the current option which will say "Archived" next to it.

Archive an Exclude Parameter
To manually archive an exclude parameter, go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
779 Select "Options" next to the exclude parameter you'd like to archive.
780 Select "Archive".
781 A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this exclude parameter. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The exclude parameter will now be listed under the "Archived" menu. Once an exclude parameter has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin/staff can see it on the booking form unless it was already selected for an existing booking.

Unarchive an Exclude Parameter
If you would ever like to start using an archived variable again, you can easily "unarchive" it.
782 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
783 Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Archived".
784 Select "Options" next to the exclude you'd like to unarchive.
785 Select "Unarchive".
786 A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this exclude parameter. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The parameter will be moved back to the "Active" pricing parameter listing. You and your customers will now be able to see and use the exclude parameter again on the booking form.

Reordering the Exclude Parameters
As mentioned earlier, the order of the excluded parameters on the booking form can be changed just like that of the variables.
787 Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).
788 Click and hold anywhere on an exclude parameter's row to drag it into a new position in the list.
789 Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.Important note: Please be sure you are clicking the "Update Priority" button at the very bottom of the Pricing Parameters page, and not the one below the Pricing Parameters section, as this section has its own "Update Priority" option.



Setting up packages for form 2
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/settings-up-packages-for-form-2

Setting up packages for form 2
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/settings-up-packages-for-form-2



BookingKoala

Back To BookingKoala

Looking for help?

Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides

BookingKoala Help Center

Industries and booking forms

Setting up packages for form 2

Industries and booking forms

Setting up packages for form 2

Learn how to set up and modify packages in booking form 2.

Last updated on 08 Jan, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

What are packages

How to add a package

How to reorder your packages

How to edit, duplicate, archive/unarchive, and delete packages

Ā

What are packages?Ā

Packages, which are used in booking form 2, allow the customer to see a picture, image, and description of each service. Customers can scroll through the available packages to view pricing and then add them to their cart.Ā

If you'd like, you can create multiple categories to display your packages under by adding "items".Ā Click here to learn how to set up items.

Packages can be further customized by adding "add-ons". Once you are finished setting up your packages, you can learn more about how to create add-ons by clicking here.ĀĀ

Ā

Add Package

To begin setting up your packages, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry name] > Form 2 > Packages

Click on the blueĀ"+ Add New" button at the top-right corner of the page.Ā

You will be redirected to an "Add Package" page.

Details Tab

The first section on the "Add package" page is the Details tab.Ā This is where you enter the name, description, pricing, and other details related to this package.ĀĀ

Ā

Name

First, add a Name for the package. This will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.ĀĀ

If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below.Ā If you use this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.ĀĀ

For example, a car cleaning service might label one package "Interior" for the admin-facing name but check "Different on customer end" so clients will see "Interior Detailing" instead.Ā

Ā

Description

Next, enter a description of the service into the box below. This will be seen by customers. Use the text formatting tools to edit the content to your liking.

Ā

Explanation

If you would like to add an explanation icon to the package that the customer can see, check the box next to where it says "Show explanation icon on form". This will add a smaller icon next to the package's icon. When the customer hovers over the icon with their curser, the explanation will be displayed.

Ā

Enable Pop-Up

If you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the package, check the box next to "Enable popup on selection" and type in the message you would like to display.

You can also customize when the pop-up will display:

Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.

Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.

Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only: on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.

Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.ĀĀ

Ā

Display

Below the popup section, select where you would like to display this package.Ā Under "Display", select one of the following options:

Customer frontend, backend & admin - The package can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.

Customer backend & admin - The package can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.

Admin only - The package can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Ā

Price & Time

Next, set up the Price and Time for the package. If your industry uses service areas, you will see "S.A." labeled just above these boxes.Ā

If you have a storefront or office, you will see "M.L." (merchant location) instead.Ā

If your business uses both service areas and merchant locations, you will see both sections. This gives you the option to set different prices depending on where the service is happening.ĀĀ

For theĀPrice, enter how much this specific package costs, excluding tax and any other optional fees.ĀĀ

Enter a TimeĀif you would like the system toĀcalculate how long the service will take.Ā If you would like your scheduling to be based on provider availability, we highly suggest you set times for each package.Ā This helps when it comes time to schedule so the booking is not assigned to someone who does not have enough time to complete it.ĀĀ

Ā

Select Icon

Packages include a graphic or icon. Under "Select icon", click the icon image to pick an icon from the system, or click "Browse" to select a file from your device.

Please note: The image size should not be more than 300x300 pixels or it will be automatically resized to fit those constraints.Ā The allowed image types are JPEG, JPG, PNG, and GIF.

Once you have finished entering your preferences, click the blueĀ"Next" button at the bottom of the page.Ā

Ā

Dependencies Tab

The next tab is the dependencies tab.Ā Dependencies are used to show or hide packages based on other factors like location, frequency, items, etc.Ā Ā

Ā

Enable Dependencies from Form Settings

Dependencies are enabled under the Form Settings section.Ā Click the link to enable dependencies for your packages.

Once you are directed to the Form Settings section, select "Options" then "Edit" to view the form settings for Form 2.ĀĀ

Scroll down towards the bottom of the page and check off the boxes next to the dependencies you would like to enable.Ā

For example, if you would like to have different-priced packages depending on the client's city, you would scroll down to the option "Which option(s) should the package show for?" and check the box next to "Location".ĀĀ

Or, let's say your items, which represent different home sizes, have different packages with different prices.Ā In this case, you would check the box next to "Items" to enable dependencies forĀ"Which option(s) should the package show for?"

Click the "Save" button and then you can resume work on your package's dependencies section.

Ā

Enable Package DependenciesĀ

To enable dependencies under the package's Dependencies tab, select "Yes" for the question "Should the package show based on the [frequency/location/service category/item]?" and then check the boxes next to the [frequencies/locations/service categories/items] you want to associate with this package.

In this example, this package will only be displayed for the cities that have been selected in the dependencies section.

Unique to Form 2, dependencies for Add-Ons are always enabled for packages.Ā This allows you to easily decide which add-ons (if any) are offered when a client adds this package to their cart.ĀĀ

Dependencies for custom fields are also always enabled so you can decide which custom fields are shown based on the package selected.ĀĀ

Once you have finished setting up your dependencies for your package, click the "Next" button at the bottom of the page.ĀĀ

Ā

Providers Tab

The final tab in the Package creation process is the Providers tab.Ā This tab is used to exclude or block providers from servicing this package.Ā For example, let's say this package is called the "Extra Heavy Duty Package" and you know there are a few providers who do not provide this service, you would check the boxes next to their names.Ā

Finally, click the "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page to save your package.

Repeat these steps until you have set up all of your packages.ĀĀ

Ā

Changing the Package Order

Once you have added multiple packages, you can update the order in which they are displayed on your booking form. Go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2 > Packages

To change the order, click and hold a package to drag and drop it into a new position in the list.

Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.Ā

Ā

How to Modify Packages

If you ever want to make further adjustments to your packages, you can always goĀto:Ā

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2 > Packages

Ā

Edit a Package

To edit a package, click on "Options" and select "Edit".

You will be brought to the Edit Package page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like.Ā Just be sure to click the blue "Save" button to save any changes.ĀĀ

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the package has been updated successfully.Ā

Ā

Duplicate a Package

To make a copy of an existing package, click on "Options" and select "Edit". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this package. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The phrase "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new package so you can tell it apart from the original. If you change the name, be sure to pick something different from the original name.ĀĀ

Once you have finished making your adjustments, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.ĀĀ

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the package has been duplicated successfully.Ā

Ā

Delete a Package

If you want to permanently delete a package, click on "Options" and select "Delete". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to delete this package. Click "Yes" to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the package has been deleted successfully.Ā

Ā

Archive or Unarchive a Package

If you would prefer to keep a package but not use it for our form right now, youĀcan instead choose to Archive it. Once a package has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin can select it from the booking form.ĀĀ

To archive a package, click on "Options" and select "Archive". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this package. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The package will now be listed under the "Archived" menu.Ā

If you would ever like to start using an archived package again, you can easily "unarchive it". Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Archived".Ā

Click on "Options" and select "Unarchive" next to the package you would like to resume.Ā A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this package. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The package will be moved back to the "Active" packages listing. You will now be able to use the package in your booking form again.



Setting up items for forms 2 & 3
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-items-for-forms-2-and-3

Setting up items for forms 2 & 3
Learn how to add and modify the items used in forms 2 and 3.

Last updated on 26 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are items
Ģ How to add a new item
Ģ How to reorder your items
Ģ How to edit, duplicate, archive/unarchive and delete items

What are items?
Items, which are used in Forms 2 and 3, represent different categories or entities your customer can select to customize their service. Items are not associated with any price or time information. These forms will work best if your business offers different rates based on the specific type of object being serviced, or if multiple objects will receive the same service.

For example, in the pet grooming industry, rates and services vary depending on the type of pet. In Bookingkoala, this business's items would be "Cat", "Small Dog", "Medium Dog", and "Large Dog".

In Form 2, items are NOT required. This means you can choose to use them in addition to Packages to add another level of specificity to the booking process. Form 2 settings allow you to decide whether you would like to show items as one entity or multiple.

To set this up, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings.

Click on "Options" then "Edit" next to the row containing Form 2. Scroll down to the question "Would you want to add an item as a separate entity if the user selects the same item with the same package already in your list?"

Ģ Select "Yes" to show each item and package as separate entities. For example, this form uses the option to indicate the packages and add-ons for each item (car).
Ģ Select "No" if you want to consolidate all packages into one item if the same item is selected more than once. For example, this form uses this option to assume there is only one item (car) being serviced with multiple packages or add-ons.

In form 3, items are required and are an integral part of how the booking form works. Customers must select an item to view the service Add-Ons. Items in form 3 automatically list as separate entities and assume each item (pet) is different.

Using this form as an example, services will be performed for three separate pets: two cats and one small dog.

Add a New Item
To begin setting up your items, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry name] > Form [2 or 3] > Items

Click on the blue "+ Add New"button at the top-right corner of the page.
You will be redirected to an "Add Item" page.

Details Tab
The first section on the "Add item" page is the Details tab. This is where you enter the name, description, pricing, and other details related to this item.

Name First, add a Name for the item. This will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.

If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below. If you use this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will know the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.

For example, an automotive industry business may use car make as their items. They could enter "VW cars" for their reference, but "Volkswagon, Audi" on the customer's end.

Description Below, there is a box for entering a Description of the item. This will only be seen by you when viewing this page. This may be helpful, especially if you have multiple items with the same name.

Explanation If you would like to add an explanation to the item that the customer can see, check the box next to where it says "Show explanation icon on form". This will add an icon next to the item's icon. When the customer hovers over the icon with their cursor, the explanation will be displayed.

Enable Pop-Up If you want to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the item, check the box next to "Enable popup on selection" and type in the message you want to display.

You can also customize when the pop-up will display:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.
Ģ Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only: on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.
Ģ Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Display Below the popup section, select where you would like to display this item. Under "Display", select one of the following options:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The item can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The item can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not be displayed for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The item can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Select Layout Items are represented by icons in the booking form. Select "Select icon" and click the icon image to pick an icon from the system; or, click "Browse" to select a file from your device.

Please note: The image size should not be more than 300x300 pixels or it will be automatically resized to fit those constraints. The allowed image types are JPEG, JPG, PNG, and GIF.

Once finished, click the blue "Next" button at the bottom of the page.

Dependencies Tab
The next tab is the dependencies tab. Dependencies are used to show or hide items based on other factors like location, frequency, etc.

Enable Dependencies from Form Settings Dependencies are enabled under the Form Settings section. Click the link to enable dependencies for your items.

Once you are directed to the Form Settings section, select "Options" then "Edit" to view the form settings for Form 2 or Form 3.

Scroll down towards the bottom of the page and check off the boxes next to the dependencies you would like to enable.
Ģ For example, if you would like to have different items depending on the client's city, you would scroll down to the option "Which option(s) should the item show for?" and check the box next to "Location".
Ģ Or, let's say your items, which represent different home sizes, have different service categories with different pricing. In this case, you would check the box next to "Service Category" to enable dependencies for "Which option(s) should the item show for?"

Click the "Save" button and then you can resume work on your item's dependencies section.

Enable Item Dependencies To enable dependencies under the package's Dependencies tab, select "Yes" for the question "Should the item show based on the [frequency/location/service category]?" and then check the boxes next to the [frequencies/locations/service categories] you want to associate with this package.

In this example, this item will only be displayed for the cities that have been selected in the dependencies section.

Unique to Form 2, dependencies for Packages are always enabled for items. This allows you to easily decide which packages are offered when a client clicks on an item.

Dependencies for custom fields are also always enabled so you can decide which custom fields are shown based on the item selected.

Once you have finished setting up your dependencies for your items, click the "Next" button at the bottom of the page.

Providers Tab
The final tab in the Package creation process is the Providers tab. This tab is used to exclude or block providers from servicing this package. For example, let's say this item is called "Scooter Maintenance" and you know there are a few providers who do not provide this service, you would check the boxes next to their names.

At the bottom of the page, click the blue "Save" button to save your first item.

Repeat this step until you have set up all of your items.

Changing the Item Order
Once you have added multiple items, you can update the order in which they are displayed on your booking form. Go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [2 or 3] > Items

To change the order, click and hold an item to drag and drop it into a new position in the list.

Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.

How to Modify Items
If you ever want to make further adjustments to your items, you can always go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [2 or 3] > Items

Edit an Item To edit an item, click on "Options" and select "Edit".

You will be brought to the Edit Item page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like. Just be sure to click the blue "Save" button to save any changes.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the item has been updated successfully.

Duplicate an Item To make a copy of an existing item, click on "Options" and select "Edit". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this item. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The phrase "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new item so you can tell it apart from the original. If you change the name, be sure to pick something different from the original name.

Once you have finished making your adjustments, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the item has been duplicated successfully.

Delete an Item If you want to permanently delete an item, click on "Options" and select "Delete". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to delete this item. Click "Yes" to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the item has been deleted successfully.

Archive or Unarchive an Item If you would prefer to keep an item but not use it for our form right now, you can instead choose to Archive it. Once an item has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin can select it from the booking form.

To archive an item, click on "Options" and select "Archive". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this item. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The item will now be listed under the "Archived" menu.

If you would ever like to start using an archived item again, you can easily "unarchive it". Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Archived".

Click on "Options" and select "Unarchive" next to the item you would like to resume. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this item. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The item will be moved back to the "Active" items listing. You will now be able to use the item in your booking form again.



Setting up add-ons for form 2
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-add-ons-for-form-2

Setting up add-ons for form 2
Learn how to add and modify add-ons for form 2.

Last updated on 29 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are add-ons
Ģ How to add a new add-on
Ģ How to reorder your add-ons
Ģ How to edit, duplicate, archive/unarchive, and delete add-ons

What are add-ons?
Add-ons, used in forms 2 and 3, represent different services your customer can purchase. If you are looking for an article on how to set up add-ons for Form 3, please click here.

In Form 2, add-ons are NOT required. This means you can choose whether you'd like to use them to further customize your Packages or not.

For example, let's say a car detailing company offers both interior and exterior detailing packages. For an additional fee, customers can upgrade the package and add deep cleaning of car mats to the service. They can create an add-on for deep cleaning of mats so customers can customize their package.

In another example, Form 2 can be used for the home cleaning industry by creating different levels of cleaning for the packages and then add-ons can be created to customize each package for an additional fee for certain services like cleaning inside the fridge, inside the oven, or doing loads of laundry.

Add a New Add-On
To begin setting up your add-ons, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry name] > Form 2 > Addons

Click on the blue "+ Add New" button at the top-right corner of the page.

You will be redirected to the "Details" tab on the "Add Add-Ons" page.

Details Tab
Name First, add a Name for the add-on. This will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.

If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below. If you use this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.

For example, the pet grooming industry may have different rates for their "brushing" service depending on the species and size. They use the name "Brushing - cats" to more easily identify and edit this add-on in the backend. On the front end, however, customers will see just "Brushing" as the add-on name.

Description Below, there is a box for entering a Description of the add-on. This will only be seen by you when viewing this page. This may be helpful, especially if you have multiple items with the same name.

Explanation If you would like to add an explanation to the add-on that the customer can see, check the box next to where it says "Show explanation icon on form". This will add an icon next to the add-on in the booking form. When the customer hovers over the icon with their cursor, the explanation will be displayed.

Enable Pop-Up If you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the add-on, check the box next to "Enable pop-up on selection" and type in the message you would like to display.

You can also customize when the pop-up will display:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.
Ģ Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only: on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.
Ģ Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Display Below the popup section, select where you would like to display this add-on. Under "Display", select one of the following options:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The add-on can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The add-on can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The add-on can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Quantity-Based Decide if you would like the add-on to be quantity-based. This option allows you to give the customers a way to select how many times they want to add this add-on.

If you select "Yes", you will need to set a maximum of how many times this add-on can be added. Enter a whole number with no spaces or symbols.

Price and job length increase based on quantity? Next, decide if you would like the price and job length of the add-on to increase based on quantity. Below where it says, "Price and job length increase based on quantity?", choose one of the following options:
Ģ Yes - Customers can add multiples of this add-on to their service and it will affect the total price and job length.
Ģ No - This add-on can be added multiple times but will only count towards the service total and time length once.

If you selected "Yes" to make your add-ons quantity-based, decide whether you would like the pricing and time for this add-on to have a Manual or Multiply Structure.

MultiplyThis option will multiply the add-on price and time and then add it to the customer's total.
For example, the cost of "brushing" is $20 and it takes 20 minutes to complete. When Multiply structure has been enabled, two of these services would cost $40 and take 40 minutes to complete. If the customer selects three of these add-ons, the total will be increased by $60 and 60 minutes.

ManualThis option allows you to set up a custom structure for how each additional add-on affects the price and time.
Once you select "manual", an extra box for each possible quantity will be added to the Price & Time section below.
Using the same example as above, the cost of "brushing" is $20 and it takes 20 minutes to complete. When Manual structure has been enabled, you can enter a custom rate and time length for the second, third, etc. add-ons.
If the customer adds this add-on twice, the service total will be increased by $35 and 30 minutes. If they select the add-on three times, the additional cost will be $50, and 40 minutes will be added.
For more information and examples of how to set up multiply or manual prices and times for add-ons (and extras), click here.

Price & TimeNext, you will set up the Price and Time for the add-on. If your industry uses service areas, you will see "S.A." labeled just above these boxes.
If you have a storefront or office, you will see "M.L." (merchant location) instead.
If your business uses both service areas and merchant locations, you will have options for both sections. This allows you to set different prices depending on where the service is being performed.
For the add-on's Price, enter how much it costs the customer to add this service to their booking.
If your add-on is quantity-based with a manual structure, enter the price for each quantity.
If you do not want to charge a fee for the add-on, enter "0" in the pricing box.
In the Time boxes, select how long the add-on will take to service. If you would like your scheduling to be based on provider availability, we highly suggest you set times for each add-on. This helps when it comes time to schedule so the booking is not assigned to someone who does not have enough time to complete it.
If you do not want the add-on to increase the time, set the minutes box to "0".

Select IconAdd-ons include icons in the booking form. Under "Select icon", click the icon image to pick an icon from the system, or click "Browse" to select a file from your device.
Please note: The image size should not be more than 300x300 pixels or it will be automatically resized to fit those constraints. The allowed image types are JPEG, JPG, PNG, and GIF.
Then, click the "Next" button at the bottom of the page to proceed to the second tab in the add-on creation process.
The next tab is the dependencies tab. Dependencies are used to show or hide add-ons based on other factors like location, frequency, items, etc.

Enable Dependencies from Form SettingsDependencies are enabled under the Form Settings section. Click the link to enable dependencies for your add-ons.
Once you are directed to the Form Settings section, select "Options" then "Edit" to view the form settings for Form 2.
Scroll down towards the bottom of the page and check off the boxes next to the dependencies you would like to enable.
Ģ For example, if you would like to have different-priced add-ons depending on the client's city, you would scroll down to the option "Which option(s) should the add-on show for?" and check the box next to "Location".
Ģ Or, let's say your packages, which cater to different home sizes, have different add-ons with different prices. In this case, you would check the box next to "Packages" to enable dependencies for "Which option(s) should the add-ons show for?"
Click the "Save" button and then you can resume work on your add-on's dependencies section.

Enable Add-On DependenciesTo enable dependencies under the add-on's Dependencies tab, select "Yes" for the question "Should the add-on show based on the [frequency/location/service category/package]?" and then check the boxes next to the [frequencies/locations/service categories/items] you want to associate with this add-on.
In this example, this add-on will only be displayed for the cities that have been selected in the dependencies section.
Once you have finished entering your preferences, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
Repeat this step until you have set up all of your add-ons.

Changing the Add-On Order
Once you have added multiple add-ons, you can update the order in which they are displayed on your booking form. Go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2 > Addons
To change the order, click and hold an add-on to drag and drop it into a new position in the list.
Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.

How to Edit, Duplicate, Archive, Unarchive, and Delete Add-Ons
If you ever want to make further adjustments to your add-ons, you can always go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2 > Addons

Edit an Add-OnTo edit an add-on, click on "Options" and select "Edit".
You will be brought to the Edit Add-Ons page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like. Just be sure to click the blue "Save" button to save any changes.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the add-on has been updated successfully.

Duplicate an Add-OnTo make a copy of an existing add-on, click on "Options" and select "Edit". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this add-on. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The phrase "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new add-on so you can tell it apart from the original. If you change the name, be sure to pick something different from the original name.
Once you have finished making your adjustments, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the add-on has been duplicated successfully.

Delete an Add-OnIf you want to permanently delete an add-on, click on "Options" and select "Delete". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to delete this add-on. Click "Yes" to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the add-on has been deleted successfully.

Archive an Add-OnIf you would prefer to keep an add-on but not use it for our form right now, you can instead choose to Archive it. Once an add-on has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin can select it in the booking form.
To archive an add-on, click on "Options" and select "Archive". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this add-on. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The add-on will now be listed under the "Archived" menu.

Unarchive an Add-OnIf you would ever like to start using an archived add-on again, you can easily "unarchive" it. Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Archived".
Click on "Options" and select "Unarchive" next to the add-on you would like to resume. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this add-on. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The add-on will be moved back to the "Active" pricing parameter listing. You will now be able to use the add-on in your booking form again.



Setting up extras for every form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-extras-for-all-forms

Setting up extras for every form
Learn more about what extras are, including how to add and modify them in your booking form.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is an "extra"
Ģ How to add a new extra
Ģ How to reorder your extras
Ģ How to edit, duplicate, archive, unarchive, and delete extras

What are "extras"?
Extras are additional services or options that can be selected on the booking form to customize an appointment.

The Extras Section is normally displayed towards the bottom of the form below the options for location, frequency, service categories, and pricing parameters/packages/items/add-ons.

Each extra is represented by an icon on the booking form. You can set up an extra to increase the total cost, increase the booking length, or just offer an option for the client to indicate their preferences.

Add a New Extra
To add a new extra, go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Extras

On the main Extras page, click on the blue "Add New" button on the top-right corner of the page.

Name First, add a Name for the extra. This will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.
If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below. If you used this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.  

Description Below, there is a box for entering a Description for the extra. This will only be seen by you or other admins when viewing this page. This may be helpful, especially if you have multiple extras with the same or similar names.

Explanation If you would like to add an explanation for the extra that the customer can see, check the box next to where it says "Show explanation icon on form". This will add an icon next to the extra's name. When the customer hovers over the icon with their curser, the explanation will be displayed.

Display On Next, select where you would like to display this extra. Under "Display On", select one of the following options:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The service category can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The service category can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The service category can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Extra Exemptions and OverridesThe next few questions have to do with how the extras time and/or price is calculated.
The following two options apply if your pricing is based on time.
Ģ Check the box next to "Override time-based pricing parameters and add extra as a separate charge?" to add the extras charge to the hourly total. 
? For example, if a service is $50/hour and the extra costs an additional $15, a 3-hour service including that extra would come to $165 ((3 hours x $50)+($15 extra fee)).
Ģ If you checked the box next to the previous option, you will also see another option just below, "Exempt the extras time from hourly service price calculation." Checking this box means that the extras length of time (if any) will not be added to the time-based rate.
? For example, let's say a service costs $50/hour and is three hours long. The service also includes an extra that is set to take 30 minutes long. When this option is selected, the customer's final bill will be $150 (3 hours x $50) instead of $175 (3.5 hours X $50/hour).

If your business offers discounts based on frequency, you can make extras exempt from being discounted. 
Ģ Check the box next to "Exempt extra from frequency discount?" so this extra will not be impacted by a frequency discount.
? For example, let's say a one-time service costs  $120, a $100 base fee plus $20 for an extra service. One-time bookings do not receive any frequency discount, but weekly bookings get 20% back. If the customer were to book the same service for every week, the price would be $100 (20% frequency discount x $100)+($20 extras fee).

Enable Pop-UpIf you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the extra, check the box next to "Enable popup on selection" and type in the message you would like to display.
You can also customize when the pop-up will display:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.
Ģ Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only, on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.
Ģ Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Quantity BasedNext, decide if you would like to make this extra Quantity Based. This option allows you to give the customers a way to select how many times they want to add this extra.
If you select "yes", you will need to set a maximum of how many times this extra can be added. Enter a whole number with no spaces or symbols.
Then, select whether you would like the pricing and time for this extra to have a Manual or Multiply Structure.

MultiplyThis option will multiply the extra price and time and then add it to the customer's total.
For example, the cost of "fridge cleaning" is $20 and it takes 20 minutes to complete. When Multiply structure has been enabled, two of these services would cost $40 and take 40 minutes to complete. If the customer selects three of these extra, the total will be increased by $60 and 60 minutes.

ManualThis option allows you to set up a custom structure for how each additional extra affects the price and time. 
Once you select "manual", an extra box for each possible quantity will be added to the Price & Time section below. 
For more information and examples of how to set up multiply or manual prices and times for an extra, click here.

Price & TimeNext, you will set up the Price and Time for the extra. If your industry uses service areas, you will see "S.A." labeled just above these boxes. 
If you have a storefront or office, you will see "M.L." (merchant location) instead. 
If your business uses both service areas and merchant locations, you will have options for both sections. This allows you to set different prices depending on where the extra service is being performed.

PriceFor the extra's Price, enter how much it costs the customer to add this extra to their booking.
If your extra is quantity-based with a manual structure, enter the price for each quantity.
If you do not want to charge a fee for the extra, enter "0" in the pricing box.

Time The extra's Time can be used if you would like the system to calculate how long the extra will take. If you would like your scheduling to be based on provider availability, we highly suggest you set times for each extra. This helps when it comes time to schedule so the booking is not assigned to someone who does not have enough time to complete it.
If you do not want the extra to add any time, set the minutes box to "0".  

Select IconExtras are represented by icons in the booking form. Under "Select icon", click the icon image to pick an icon from the system, or click "Browse" to select a file from your device.
Please note: The image size should not be more than 300x300 pixels or it will be automatically resized to fit those constraints. The allowed image types are JPEG, JPG, PNG, and GIF.

Apply To At the bottom of the page, select one of the following options:
Ģ Apply to all bookings - This means that if a customer selects this parameter for a recurring service, it will be included in every booking. 
Ģ Apply only to the first appointment - This means the parameter will only be applied to the first booking in a recurring service.
This will set the default behavior for this extra when it is added to a booking. You can change the behavior on a case-by-case basis at any time from inside the booking form.
Once you have finished entering your preferences, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page. Repeat this step until you have set up all of your extras.

Changing the Extras Order
Once you have added multiple extras, you can update the order in which they are displayed on your booking form. Go to:
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Extras
To change the order, click and hold an extra to drag and drop it into a new position in the list.
Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.

How to Edit, Duplicate, Archive, Unarchive, and Delete Extras
If you ever want to make further adjustments to your extras, you can always go to: 
Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Extras

Edit an ExtraTo edit an extra, click on "Options" and select "Edit".
You will be brought to the Edit Extras page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like. Just be sure to click the blue "Save" button to save any changes.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the extra has been updated successfully. 

Duplicate an ExtraTo make a copy of an existing extra, click on "Options" and select "Edit". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this extra. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The phrase "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new extra so you can tell it apart from the original. If you change the name, be sure to pick something different from the original name.
Once you have finished making your adjustments, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the extra has been duplicated successfully. 

Delete an ExtraIf you want to permanently delete an extra, click on "Options" and select "Delete". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to delete this extra. Click "Yes" to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the extra has been deleted successfully.

Archive an Extra If you would prefer to keep an extra but not use it for our form right now, you can instead choose to Archive it. Once an extra has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin can select it in the booking form.
To archive an extra, click on "Options" and select "Archive". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this extra. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The extra will now be listed under the "Archived" menu.

Unarchive an ExtraIf you would ever like to start using an archived extra again, you can easily "unarchive" it. Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Archived". 
Click on "Options" and select "Unarchive" next to the extra you would like to resume. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this extra. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The extra will be moved back to the "Active" pricing parameter listing. You will now be able to use the extra in your booking form again.



"Multiply" vs "manual" pricing and time for extras and add-ons
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/multiply-vs-manual-pricing-and-time-for-extras

"Multiply" vs "manual" pricing and time for extras and add-ons
Learn the difference between multiply versus manual pricing and time and how to set them up for your extras (all forms) and add ons (forms 2 & 3)

Last updated on 23 Feb, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are "multiply" and "manual" pricing and times
Ģ How to set up a "quantity-based" extra
Ģ How to set up "multiply" pricing and times for an extra
Ģ How to set up "manual" pricing and times for an extra

What is the difference between "multiply" and "manual" pricing/time?
Multiply or Manual Price/Times is a special setting found in the Extras and Add-Ons sections of your booking form. These options only display if you have set up your extra or add-on to be "quantity-based".

Quantity-based extras and add-ons allow you and your customers to select how many times to want to add this service to their order.

If you use the Multiply Pricing Structure, the service's price and time length with be multiplied by the number of times the customer has selected.
Ģ For example, let's say a cleaning company charges an additional fee for every cat the client lives with. This extra is an additional $20 charge and adds 10 minutes to the total booking time.
Ģ If a customer has two cats and selects a quantity of "2" for this extra, their rate will be increased by $40 and an additional 20 minutes will be added onto the total service length.

If you select Manual Pricing Structure instead, you can set up a custom structure for how each additional quantity affects the price and time length.
Ģ For example, let's say that the same cleaning company charges $20 for cleaning homes with one cat, $30 for two cats, and $40 for three cats. Cleaning a home with a single cat adds 10 minutes to the service length, two cats take about 25 minutes, and three cats take an additional 40 minutes.
Ģ When the customer clicks the cat extra and selects a quantity of two, their rate will be increased by $30 and 20 minutes will be added to the service length.

If you do not have any extras yet, click here to visit our guide on how to add a new extra before you apply either of these pricing structures. For more information on how to set up your add-ons, click here.

Please note: The process of setting up quantity-based extras and add-ons is the same, so for the purposes of this article, instructions will be provided for how to quantify extras. The same process can be followed for add ons by going to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [2 or 3] > Addons

Set Up a "Quantity-Based" Extra
To set up multiply or manual pricing and times for an extra, you will first need to set it as quantity-based. Go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Extras

To the right of the extra's name, click on "Options" and select "Edit".

You will be brought to the Edit Extras page. Scroll down to where it says "Quantity based" and select "Yes".

Next, you will need to set a maximum of how many times this extra can be added. Type a number into the box to set the maximum.

Now, you are ready to select whether you would like the pricing and time for this extra to have a Manual or Multiply Structure.

Set Up "Multiply" Pricing and Times for an Extra
To set up multiply pricing and times for an extra, click the radio button next to "Multiply".

Then, enter the extras Price & Time below. If your industry uses service areas, you will see "S.A." labeled just above these boxes.

If you have a storefront or office, you will see "M.L." (merchant location) instead.

If your business uses both service areas and merchant locations, you will have options for both sections. This allows you to set different prices depending on where the extra service is being performed.

For the extra's Price, enter how much it costs the customer to add this extra to their booking.

This rate will be multiplied by the number of times the extra is selected. For example, if the extra's cost is $20 and a customer selects three of these services, $60 will be added to their total charge.

If you do not want to charge a fee for the extra, enter "0" in the pricing box.

The extra's Time can be used if you would like the system to calculate how long the extra will take. If you would like your scheduling to be based on provider availability, we highly suggest you set times for each extra. This helps when it comes time to schedule so the booking is not assigned to someone who does not have enough time to complete it.

The time length will be multiplied by the number of times the extra is selected. For example, if the extra takes 10 minutes to complete and a customer selects three of these services, 30 minutes will be added to their total service length.

If you do not want the extra to add any time, set the minutes box to "0".

Once you have entered your pricing and timing information into the boxes, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner letting you know the extra has been updated successfully.

Set Up "Manual" Pricing and Times for an Extra
If you would like to set up manual pricing and times instead, click the radio button next to "Manual".

Once you select "manual", an extra box for each possible quantity will be added to the Price & Time section below.

Enter the price and time for a quantity of 1 into the first set of boxes, then the pricing/time for 2 of the extras in the second box, etc. until each quantity has a price and time length.

For example, let's say an extra has a maximum quantity of three. The cost for one is $20 and it will take 10 minutes to complete, two extras cost $30 and will take 20 minutes, and three will be $40 and take 30 minutes.

The setup for the prices and times would look like this:
Ģ The first box contains the price and time when the extra is selected just once: inside one extra is an additional $20 and adds 10 minutes.
Ģ The second box contains the pricing and time information for if they increase the quantity to two: $30 extra and 20 minutes added.
Ģ The third box contains the rate and time length for three cats: $40 extra and 30 minutes added.

Once you have entered your pricing and timing information into the boxes for each quantity, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner letting you know the extra has been updated successfully.



Offer different services on the customer end
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/offer-differenct-services-on-the-customer-end

Offer different services on the customer end
Learn how to set up services that display for existing customers or can only be booked by admin/staff.

Last updated on 02 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to offer services to existing customers only
Ģ How to create admin-only service categories

Service Category Display Settings
Whenever you create a new service category for your booking form, you can decide where that service will be displayed. This allows you to create "secret services" that are only available to different kinds of users.

For example, if you manage a cleaning business, you would likely need a way to schedule special appointments for "re-cleans" or touch-ups of missed areas. However, you probably wouldn't want customers to be able to schedule these types of services on their own.

To achieve this, you can create a "Re-Clean" service category and set it to display only on the admin end.

In another example, let's say you run an organization business. You would like all new customers to schedule a "New Client Home Consult" for their first appointment. Once they've had one appointment with your company, they can schedule an "Existing Client Follow-Up" at a discounted rate. To achieve this, you can create an "Existing Customer" service category that only displays on the customer backend and admin end.

Navigation Path
To create or change the visibility of a service category on the customer front-end, customer-backend, or admin-end, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > [Form #] > Service Category

Step-by-Step Instructions
790 Go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > [Form #] > Service Category.
791 If you are setting up a new service category, follow the detailed instructions for setting up service categories.
792 If you are updating an existing category, click "Options" then "Edit" to view its settings.
793 Scroll down to the "Display" section.
794 Select one of the display options (see below).
795 Once you have made the change, click the blue "Save Category" button at the bottom right corner of the page.

Settings and Features Described
In the "Display" section, you can select one of the following options:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The service category can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The service category can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The service category can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.



How to remove "dependencies" from the booking form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/removing-dependncy-from-the-booking-form

How to remove "dependencies" from the booking form
Learn how to disable dependencies from sections on the booking form so you can rearrange sections.

Last updated on 10 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ What are dependencies
Ģ How to remove dependencies from the booking form

What are dependencies?
One of the special features of the booking forms is that you can create " dependencies" .  When you enable a dependency for a component, you can customize how other categories will display when this option is selected.  Simply put, one category's options will depend on the selection(s) in another.

For example, let's say a cleaning business offers residential, commercial, and post-construction services.  Residential and commercial customers can book any frequency they would like, however, post-construction services are always scheduled as one-time appointments.

To ensure that a client cannot book a recurring post-construction service, the company can enable service categories dependencies on frequency. This way, the post-construction service will not display if they have selected a recurring frequency.

One drawback to dependencies is that they must occur in a specific order in the form. For example, if your frequencies depend on your service category, the service category section will have to go before the customer can select a frequency. This is because only certain frequencies are available for some categories.

This can result in a red error message if you are trying to rearrange the sections of your form in the website & theme builder .

If you do not want to use dependencies on your form, this will allow you to reorder the sections of your booking form without constraint.

Click here to learn how to reorder the categories in your booking form.

Remove Dependencies from the Booking Form
To remove dependencies from your form, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click " Options ", " Edit " to the right of the form you'd like to update,

Scroll down to the bottom of the Form Settings page until you see the following types of questions:

Ģ Should the frequencies show based on?
Ģ Which option(s) should the service category show for?
Ģ Which option(s) should the variables show for?
Ģ Which option(s) should the exclude parameters show for?
Ģ Which option(s) should the extras show for?

The number of dependencies is controlled by which and many sections you have in your booking form.  For example, form 5 has the following section:

To remove a dependency, uncheck the box next to the category name. To disable all dependencies, make sure all of the boxes are unchecked. Then, click the blue " Save " button to update your form settings.

You will now be able to freely rearrange the sections of your booking form in the website & theme builder according to your liking.



Setting up custom sections for every form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-custom-section-for-all-forms

Setting up custom sections for every form

Industries and booking forms

Setting up custom sections for every form

Learn how to add a custom section to any type of form.

Last updated on 17 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

What is a custom section

How to add a custom section

How to add custom fields

How to reorder your custom sections and fields

How to edit, deactivate, and delete custom sections and fields

Ā

What are custom sections?Ā

Custom sections can be added to your booking form to gather or share specific information not covered in other sections of the form.ĀĀ

In the example above, the "Location Questions" and "Pet Questions" areas on this booking form are custom sections. In these sections, there are several different questions for the customer to select as they fill out the form.

Custom sections can be inserted into almost any step of the booking form.

In the example above, a custom section was used to create "About Our Flat Rate Services".Ā This custom section has been inserted below the Extras section and before the Customer Details section.

Ā

Adding an Individual Custom Field

To create a new custom section field, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Custom Sections

On the Custom Sections main page, click the blueĀ"Add New" button at the top-right corner of the screen.Ā

Next, selectĀAdd Individual Custom Field.

Ā

You will be redirected to an Add Custom Field page on the Details tab.

Ā

Individual Custom Field Details Tab

Enter the Name of the new field. Check the box next toĀDifferent on customer end if you would like the customer-facing form to say something different.Ā Then, enter the alternative text into the field below.

Next, decide if you would like the custom field to carry a price by checking the box next toĀWould you like to enable pricing for this field?Ā If pricing is enabled, there are several additional settings that can be enabled.ĀĀ

Next, check the box next Would you like to apply tax to this field?ĀIf this has been selected, you will also be asked Where would you like to place this field?

Before the frequency discountĀ-Ā Tax is calculated on thisĀ

After the frequency discount - Tax is calculatedĀ

After the discounted total - Applied after all discounts including the frequency discount

If you select Before the frequency discount or After the frequency discount, you have an additional option,ĀWould you like to include the custom field as a separate charge?ĀĀIf you check the box next to this option, decide if the price will be calculated solely based on time, calculatedĀsolely based on the specified amount, or Both.ĀĀ

Field Types

Next, select the type of field this will be.

Text - Inserts a smaller one-line text box for the customer to respond in.ĀĀ

Text Area - Inserts a large multline text box for the customer to respond in.

Dropdown - Inserts a drop-down menu with one or more options to select.

Checkbox - Inserts one or more options with boxes in which the customer can select one or more options.

Radio Button - Inserts one or more options with radio buttons, in which the customer can select one option only

Date picker - Inserts a calendar box in which the customer can pick one option for the date

Time picker - Inerts a clock box in which the customer can pick one option for the time

Priceable Input - Sets one price that can be edited by the admin/staff at the time of booking.ĀĀ

Quantity Based - Sets a manual or multiply rate for one or more options from a quantity bar.ĀĀ

Note - Add text for the customer to read (no options for responses).ĀĀ

Image - Add an image for the customer to view.

Video - Add a video for the customer to watch.ĀĀ

Add An Option (For Dropdown, Checkbox, and Radio Button Types)

For Dropdown, Checkbox, and Radio Button field types, add one or more options by clicking the blue Add a new option button to the right of the Field Type.

Ā

Enter theĀname of the option and then enter a price in the boxes below (S.A. for service area and M.L. for merchant location/online).Ā You can optionally enable a message to show when the customer selects this option.ĀĀ

If there are multiple fields in the system already, one can set up dependencies from one field on another.

To do so, check the boxes next to the fields you would like to associate with this field's option.

Then click the blueĀAddĀor UpdateĀbutton to save the option to the custom field.ĀĀOnce an option has been added, it can be edited and/or deleted.

Help Text

Add optionalĀHelp Text in the form of aĀtooltip or a textĀdescription.

A tooltip is a symbol that displays a sentence or short paragraph of text when hovered over with one's cursor.ĀĀ

A description is a sentence or short paragraph that adds further clarification to the field, displayed below the main field.

Which customers would you like to apply this field to?

For this option, decide if this new custom field should be applied to all customer's bookings, or only new customer's bookings moving forward.ĀĀ

If you selectĀAll customers,Ādecide if the new custom field will be applied to All bookings, or if you'd like to exclude bookings that have already been charged.

Required

Next, decide if this custom field is required for the customer to complete in order to book a service.Ā If so, check the box next to where it saysĀRequired.Ā If you would like to exclude this requirement for completed and charges bookings, check the box next to where it saysĀExclude required validation on completed and charged bookings?.ĀĀ

Display

Next, decide who you would like to see this field.

Customer frontend, backend & admin - Both new and existing customers as well as the admin and staff can view this field.ĀĀ

Customer backend & admin -Only existing customers and admin/staff will be able to see this field.ĀĀ

Admin only -Ā Only staff and admin will be able to see this field on the booking form.Ā

Provider View and Payment

If you would like to hide this field from the provider(s), check the box next toĀExclude this field from the provider's view.ĀĀ

UnderĀWhat amount would you like to allocate as payment to the provider(s)?, select one of the following options:

FullĀ- The provider will receive the entire payment for this field.Ā For example, if the field costs $40, the provider will have $40 added to their payment.ĀĀ

Partial -The provider will receive a partial payment for this field, either a fixed rate or a percentage-based rate.Ā For example, if it is set to 50% and the field costs $40, the provider will have $20 added to their payment.Ā

None - The provider will not receive any payment related to the customer's payment of this field.Ā If the field costs $40, the provider will receive $0 in payment.ĀĀ

Specify where to apply this custom field.

Decide if this custom field will be applied to all bookings in the case of a recurring series, or if it will only be applied to the first appointment in a recurring series.ĀĀ

Ā

Specify where you would like to include this custom information for your notifications.

Decide if you would like to show the information from your custom section in your notifications to your customers, providers, and admin/staff.Ā

At the bottom of the page, click the blue Next button.ĀĀ

Individual Custom Field Dependencies Tab

The second tab on theĀAdd Custom Field page displays the other sections in your booking form to set up dependencies for when this field is displayed or hidden.ĀĀ

If you have multiple booking forms and would like to add this custom field to any of those forms, selectĀYes to the questionĀWould you like to add this custom field to other booking forms? then check the boxes next to each form you would like to apply this field to.ĀĀ

Below, select which form elements (locations, frequencies, service categories, variables, items, packages, extras, etc.) will display this custom field.Ā For example, the dependencies shown below indicate the field will be shown for all frequencies and service categories but only customers in "The Loop" location.ĀĀ

For the Extras dependencies section, there is an additional feature where you can decide whether the selected parameter should match theĀExact combination (all checked parameters must match the booking exactly),ĀAny combination (at least one of the checked parameters must match the booking), or MixedĀcombination (as long as an unselected option is not selected on the booking, the custom field will be displayed)

For example, in a scenario with 5 parameters, "P1", "P2", "P3", "P4", and "P5", assuming you've selected P1, P2, and P3, here is how each option operates:

Exact:ĀThis option necessitates the selection of all 3 checked parameters (P1, P2, and P3) to display the custom field on the booking form.

Any:ĀWith this option, the custom field will be visible on the booking form if at least one of the checked parameters (P1, P2, or P3) is selected.

Mixed:ĀIn this case, the custom field remains displayed unless any parameter not initially selected (such as P4 or P5) is chosen. If P4 or P5 is selected alongside P1, P2, or P3, the custom field will not appear on the booking form.

Ā

Save

Once you are finished setting up the custom field, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.Ā

Once you do, you will see a pop-up message confirming that your custom field has been added successfully.ĀĀ

If you wish to rearrange the default order in which the custom section appears on the booking form, click the blue "Rearrange" button to open theĀWebsite & Theme BuilderĀin a separate tab.Ā

Otherwise, you can clickĀCloseĀand you will be redirected back to the main Custom Section dashboard.ĀĀ

Ā

Adding Custom Field Groups

Once more than one custom field has been added, they will be grouped together in a custom group.Ā To edit the group name, selectĀOptions below the ActionsĀcolumn and selectĀEdit.ĀĀ

You can also add a brand new group by clicking the blueĀAdd New button and selectingĀAdd Group.Ā

A pop-up will appear where you can enter the name of the the new section and decide if it should be included in any other forms.

Then, click the blue "Save" button to save the group.ĀĀ

Ā

Add Custom Fields to a Specific Group

To see and add more custom fields to a group, click Options below the ActionsĀcolumn and selectĀSee/Add Custom Fields.

It is possible to deactivate custom groups and fields by usingĀOptions thenĀDeactivate,Āor delete is permanently by usingĀOptionsĀthenĀDelete.

Ā

Changing the Custom Fields Order

If you have added multiple custom sections, you can change the order in which they are displayed on your booking form. Go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Custom Sections > Options > Add/View Custom Fields

To change the order, click and hold the field to drag and drop it into a new position in the list.

Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.Ā

Ā

Changing the Custom Fields Group Order

If you have multiple fields within a custom section, you can also change the order in which they are displayed in that section. Go to:

Settings > Website Buidler & Themes > Customize Theme> Page menu > Book Now page

Click the greyĀRearrangeĀbutton beneath the form number and industry name you would like to rearrange.

Drag and drop the custom field groups by clicking on their name and placing it in a new order on the list.Ā Then remember to clickĀSave & Publish to update your booking form when you are ready for the changes to go live.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.Ā



Set up the single-step or two-step booking form for admin & staff
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-the-single-step-vs-two-step-for-admin

Set up the single-step or two-step booking form for admin & staff
Learn how to enable a one-or two-step booking form when making bookings as an admin or staff member.

The purpose of this article is to help you understand how to:

Ģ Enable the single-step vs two-step booking form for staff and admin use

Single Step vs. Two-Step Forms for Admin
As the admin, you have an option to set up your backend booking form in either one or two steps.

When the form is set to be one step , all of the various booking details are located on one page.

If the form is separated into two steps , you and your staff will click " Find Availability " at the bottom of step 1 to proceed with scheduling the service and entering in the rest of the customer's details.

To do this, you will go into your booking form settings. Please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click " Options ", " Edit " to the right of the form you'd like to update.

The first question in this section says, " Would you like a one-step or two-step booking form as the admin? "

Ģ Select " One Step " to have the booking form appear as a single page on the backend of the site.
Ģ Select " Two-Step " if you'd like to have two pages to navigate between when booking on the backend.

Once you've made your selection, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom right corner of the page.



Enable/disable customers & providers from seeing job length
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/disable-customers-and-providers-from-seeing-job-length

Enable/disable customers & providers from seeing job length
Learn how to configure if/when providers and/or customers see how long a job is estimated to take.

Last updated on 19 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to enable or disable providers from seeing the job length
Ģ How to enable or disable customers from seeing the job length

Show or Hide the Job Length
When you are setting up your booking form, you can include estimates for how long each service takes. These job length estimates are based on the timing information you have entered when setting up your service categories, pricing parameters, packages, add-ons, or extra services.

However, you may want to modify when your customers or providers are able to view the job length. Some businesses may want to disable job length for a few reasons:
796 You do not want to confuse the customer if the service is expected to take more or less time than the booking form's estimate.
797 You do not want to influence how long the provider thinks they should be working on a job.

Whatever the case may be, you can customize each booking form to display or hide the job length from customers, providers, or both. To begin, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Next, click "Options", then "Edit" to view your form settings.

Scroll down to the question, "Do you want your customers to see how long the service will take during bookings?"
Ģ Select "Customer front end" if you want new customers to see how long the job will take when filling out the booking form on the front end of the website.
Ģ Select "Customer back end" if you only want existing customers to see how long the job will take on the booking form. This means that a customer must log in to their account and create/edit a booking to view the service length.
Ģ Select "Both" if you would like both new and existing customers to see the job length.
Ģ Select "Off" to hide the job length on the booking form.

Once you've made your selection, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right side of the page.

You can also control whether customers and providers see the job length inside your service categories. To edit these, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Categories

Click "Options", then "Edit" next to the service category you would like to change.

Scroll down until you see "Display service length on customer end". This allows you to select if/when you would like to display the service length on your booking forms and confirmation emails.

Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The service length will be displayed for potential customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The service length will only be displayed for existing customers or admin/staff, but will not display for new customers on the front-end.
Ģ Admin only - The time length will only be seen by admin or staff when making bookings.

You also have the option to add a tooltip next to the service length on the customer end of the booking form. This will insert an icon next to the service length in the booking summary box. When the customer hovers over the icon with their curser, your message will be displayed.

Check the box next to "Enable tooltip for service length on customer end" and enter the message in the box below.

You can also decide if you would like to display the service length so providers can see it. To enable this, select "Yes" under "Display service length on provider end". You can also add a tooltip about the service length for the provider's reference.

Once you are finished, click the blue "Save Category" button at the bottom right corner of the page.



Set up the single-step, two-step, or multi-step booking form for customers
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-the-single-step-two-step-or-multi-step-form-for-customers

Set up the single-step, two-step, or multi-step booking form for customers
Learn how to set up a single-step, two-step, or multi-step booking form for customer use.

Last updated on 14 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are single-step, two-step, and multi-step forms
Ģ How to change which type of form your customers will use when booking services

Single Step vs. Two-Step vs. Multi-Step Forms
There are three types of forms when it comes to how many steps the customer has to go through to submit a booking: single-step, two-step, and multi-step.

A single-step form allows a customer to fill out all of their booking information on a single page.

A two-step form allows customers to fill out the job information and their email address on the first page, and then navigate to the second page by clicking "Find Availability" to select a time and finish filling out their information.

A multi-step form breaks each section of the booking form into its own step, with the client clicking "Next" until they reach the final page.

Please note: The multi-step booking form is only available for Premium subscribers.

Change the From Steps Type
To change the type of booking form your client uses on the front end, please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options", "Edit" to the right of the form you'd like to update.

The second question in this section says, "Would you like a one-step, two-step, or multi-step booking form on the customer end?"

Ģ Select "One Step" to have the booking form appear as a single page on the backend of the site.
Ģ Select "Two-Step" if you'd like to have two pages to navigate between when booking on the backend.
Ģ Select "Multi-Step" if you'd like to break each section into its own step.

Once you've made your selection, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page.



Setting up tips and parking
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/set-up-tips-and-parking

Setting up tips and parking
Learn how to set up tips and parking on your booking form.

Last updated on 08 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to enable tips or parking fees for your booking form
Ģ How to enable the automated tip notifications
Ģ How to add a tip from the admin end
Ģ How customers can add a tip to their service

Enable/Disable Tips and Parking
If you would like your customers to be able to leave tips or pay parking fees for your provider, you can enable a tip and/or parking section on your booking form. 100% of tips and parking goes directly to the provider or team performing the job.

Customers can select one of the preset amounts, or click " Other " to enter a custom flat-rate or percentage-based tip.

Tips and parking are controlled under the " Service Category " section of your booking form, allowing you to decide which services you want to enable or disable this feature for.

To begin, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Category

Click " Options ", and then " Edit " to open an existing service category.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page until you see the " Extras " section.

To enable tips or parking fees, click the red " Disabled " button to switch to " Enabled ".

Next, decide whether you want the tip saved to " All " bookings or just the " First " booking if a customer has added a tip to a recurring service.

Under " Display ", decide when you want the tip or parking option to show on the booking form.
Ģ Customer frontend, backend, & admin - New customers, existing customers, and admin/staff will all be able to see and use the tip or parking option on the form.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - Only existing customers and admin/staff can add tips and/or parking.
Ģ Admin only - Only the admin and staff can see the tip and/or parking section on the booking form.

Once you are finished making your selections, click the blue " Save Category " button at the bottom of the page to update your changes.

Enable Automatic Tip Notifications
You can also set up BookingKoala to send customers an automated email and/or SMS notification asking them to leave a tip after completing their service.

Before you begin, please make sure you have set up your email and SMS notifications.
Click here to learn how to set up your email notifications.
Click here to learn how to set up your SMS notifications.

To enable the notification, go to: Notifications > Emails Notifications > SMS

At the top of the page, click the " Customer " tab. You'll also want to check that the toggle button at the top of the section is toggled to " Enabled ".

Scroll down to the " Completed Booking " section and click anywhere to expand it.

Click the red " Disabled " button next to the " Leave Tip " template to switch it to " Enabled ". A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to enable this notification. Click " Yes " to proceed.

You can also edit the template by clicking the " Edit " button on the far right.

The default message looks like this:
Once the customer clicks the "Go to Dashboard " link, they can click on the " Previous Appointments " tab and then click the " Add Tip " button below the booking. This is discussed in greater detail in a later section.

Adding Tips/Parking from the Admin End
Once you have enabled tips or parking for a service category, you can easily add a tip on behalf of a customer while filling out the booking form.

Simply scroll down the " Tips & Parking (Optional) " section and then use the buttons to select or enter the amount the customer would like to add.

Once you are finished filling out the form, click the green " Save Booking " or blue " Update Booking " button to add the tip.

Click here to learn how to add a tip after charging a customer for their service.



Enable the "key message" option
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/enabling-key-option

Enable the "key message" option
Learn how to enable or disable the key message and how it can be used in the booking form.

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is the "key message" feature
Ģ How to enable the key message for your booking form

What is the "key message"?
One of the optional features located in your booking form's settings is the ability to add a key message for the customer. When enabled, customers and staff can use this option to indicate if someone will be home for the service, if they will be hiding a key, and/or if they would like the provider to keep the key after the service has been completed.

Below, a text box is included to allow the customer to add any notes or instructions that have to do with accessing the location.

Enable the Key Message Option
The key message can be enabled or disabled under your form Settings section. You can locate this by going to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Next, click " Options ", then " Edit " next to the form you'd like to view settings for.

Scroll down towards the bottom of the form until you see " Key message " with a red toggle button below it. Click the button to switch it to " Enabled ".

Finally, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page to update your form settings.

You and your customers will now be able to leave and track key information using this section.



How to enable manual booking reminders
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-enable-manual-booking-reminders

How to enable manual booking reminders
You will learn how to enable manual booking reminders.

Last updated on 15 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are manual booking reminders
Ģ How to enable manual booking reminders for your booking form

What are manual booking reminders?
Manual booking reminders are notes and notifications that you can enable for specific bookings. These can be used for many different purposes, such as reminding yourself to contact a customer about a question, or checking that billing information has been added before the service date.

There are two types of manual booking reminders:
Ģ Alert before charge
Ģ Email reminder to admin

Once enabled, they will display at the bottom/end of your booking form in their own " Reminder " section, just before the " Payment Information " section.

Alert Before Charge

An " Alert before charge " allows you to place a pop-up notification on a booking that will display before you attempt to process the charge. You can use this feature to display reminders specific to charging the customer, especially if you want to delay the charge for any reason.

To set up an alert before charge, all you need to do is create or edit a booking, scroll down to the " Reminder " section, and check the box next to " Alert before charge now ".

Enter the message you would like to display in the box below. Once you are finished, remember to click the " Save Booking " or " Update Booking " button on the right side of the screen.

Once the booking has been completed, you can view the alert by going to: Bookings > Booking Charges

You'll notice that the booking does not have a checkbox to include it in bulk charging. This is to ensure that the alert is seen by you or your staff before processing the customer's payment.

Once you click the cash/check or $ icon to process the customer's charge, a pop-up will appear displaying your message.

When you are ready to process the charge, you can click the blue " Charge Now " button.

Email Reminder to Admin

An " Email reminder to admin " is exactly that: a notification that is emailed directly to the admin email address on file for your account.

To add a manual email reminder for the admin, edit or create a new booking, scroll down to the " Reminder " section, and check the box next to " Email reminder to admin ".

Once you check the box next to " Email reminder to admin ", you can pick one of three different options for when your notification will be sent out.
Ģ Date - Select a specific date for when the booking reminder will be sent to the admin
Ģ Days Before - Select how many days before the service you would like to receive the notification.
Ģ Hours Earlier - Select how many hours before the service you would like to receive the notification.

Then, type your reminder or not into the box below. Once you are finished, be sure to click the " Save Booking " or " Update Booking " button on the right side of the screen.

Enable Manual Booking Reminders
If you would like to turn on manual booking reminders for your form(s), please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Next, click " Options ", then " Edit " next to the form you'd like to view settings for.

Scroll down until you see the question, " Do you want to enable the ōReminderö option under the booking form? " and select " Yes ".

Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom left of the page to update your settings.

Next, you'll need to check that you have enabled the " Email reminder to admin " notification template. Please go to: Settings > Notifications > Emails

Under the " Admin " tab, scroll down until you see the " Reminders " section. Click on the section name to expand it.

Make sure that the button to the left of the " Email reminder to admin " is toggled to " Enabled ".

Once it has been enabled, you are ready to add manual email reminders for admin!



Booking form is not working, what to do
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/booking-form-is-not-working-what-to-do

Booking form is not working, what to do
Learn how to troubleshoot your booking form when it is not working as expected.

Last updated on 17 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ Reasons why a booking form is not behaving as expected
Ģ How to correct common form issues

Why is my booking form not working?
Based on previous issues others faced with their forms, we put together a guide to help you solve the problem(s) you are experiencing.

General Loading Issues
Ģ "I made some changes and when I went to view my booking form, things were missing on the form (such as frequencies, service categories, packages, etc)."
Ģ "I went to view my form and saw a blank/white screen."
Ģ "I went to view my form and the screen didn't load."

The most common reason forms will not load is server speed, causing the page to "time out".Ā This can be fixed by refreshing the page. If you are still having difficulties, try logging out and back in, or clearing your browser's cache.

798 Refresh the window/tab. There are a few different ways to do this depending on your device and browser type.

? Press Command + R simultaneously (for Mac devices)
? Press CTRL + R simultaneously (in most web browsers)
? Press the F5 key (for Windows PCs)
? Press CTRL + F5 simultaneously (for Windows laptops)
? Press fN + 5 simultaneously (keyboards without the F5 key)
799 Log out and back in again.

799.1 Click on your name in the top right corner of your dashboard.
799.2 Select "Logout" at the bottom of the drop-down menu.
799.3 Close the window or tab.Ā Be sure to exit any additional tabs or windows you have open that are associated with your account.
799.4 Open a new tab or window in your browser.
799.5 Log back into your admin dashboard.

Ģ Click here to learn how to log into your account.
800 Clear the browser's cache.Ā Sometimes, your cache will try to show you an older version of your site and forms. Please note it can take up to a minute or two for your browser to clear the cache.ĀĀ

800.1 Chrome

800.1.1 Click the "three dots" menu icon at the top right corner of the page.
800.1.2 Select More Tools > Clear browsing data.
800.1.3 Check the boxes next to "Browsing History", "Cookies", and "Cached images and files".
800.1.4 For the time range, we recommend selecting "All time".
800.1.5 Click the "Clear Data" button at the bottom of the pop-up.
800.2 Safari

800.2.1 Go to Settings >ĀSafari > Preferences > Privacy > Manage Website Data.
800.2.2 Click "Clear Website History".
800.2.3 Select your BookingKoala domain if it is listed, then clickĀRemove.
800.2.4 If you want to remove all website data from Safari, you can clickĀRemove Allinstead.
800.3 Microsoft Edge

800.3.1 Click on the "hamburger" menu icon.
800.3.2 Go to Settings > Settings > Privacy > Privacy, Search, and Services >ĀClear Browsing Data.
800.3.3 Click "Choose What To Clear".
800.3.4 Check the boxes next to "Browsing History" and "Cookies".
800.3.5 For the time range, we recommend selecting "All time".
800.3.6 Click on the "Clear Now" button at the bottom of the page.
800.4 Firefox

800.4.1 Click on the "hamburger" menu icon.
800.4.2 Go to Options > Privacy & Security.
800.4.3 Scroll down to the "History" section and click the "Clear History" button.
800.5 Opera

800.5.1 Click on the "clock" icon in the left sidebar.
800.5.2 Click on the "Clear Browsing Data" button.
800.5.3 Check the boxes next to "Browsing History", "Cookies", and "Cached images and files".
800.5.4 We recommend selecting "All time" for the time range.
800.5.5 Click the "Clear Data" button at the bottom of the pop-up.

If your browser is not listed here, please search the internet using the phrase "[Browser Name] clear browsing data".

Missing Forms and Industries
Ģ "My booking page says 'Under Maintenance'."
Ģ "I added a second form but it is missing from the 'Book now' page."
Ģ "An entire industry is missing from the booking form."

If your form shows an "Under Maintenance" message, it is most likely in test mode. Test mode can be turned off in the form's settings section.Ā If the form is not displaying at all, you may have not finished setting up a form combination.Ā If an entire industry is missing, the industry has likely been disabled for customersĀor disabled for all users.

801 Disable test mode. Your form can go into "test" mode so it will not display on the front end of your website.Ā If this option was enabled by mistake, you could easily disable it under the form's settings.

801.1 Go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings.
801.2 Look for any forms that say "Test" under the "status" column.
801.3 To update the form to "Live" mode, select "Options" then "Edit" to view the form's settings.
801.4 Scroll down to the bottom of the page and look for the "Form Status" toggle button.
801.5 Click the button to change it from "Disabled" to "Enabled".
801.6 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page to update your form.
802 Add/finish setting up a form combination.Ā If you have more than one booking form added to an industry, only the default form will be shown.Ā This can be remedied by creating a form combination.Ā If you start setting up a form combination but have not selected options for each form, this will also lead to one or more forms being hidden.

802.1 Go to Settings >ĀIndustries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Add/Combine Form.
802.2 If you see a single tab on this page that says "Combine 2 Forms", you will need to create a new combination.Ā Click here to learn how to combine two or more forms.
802.3 If you already have a form combination, click the "View All Combinations" tab.
802.4 Select "Options" then "Edit" next to the combination.
802.5 Look under each option and make sure that the missing form is selected for at least one of these options.
802.6 If the form has not been selected anywhere, click the bullet icon next to the missing form to select it for an option.Ā You can also click the blue "Add Option" button if you have 3+ forms.
802.7 Once you are finished making changes, click the blue "Update" button at the bottom of this section.
803 Enable the industry's status.Ā If an entire industry is missing, it has likely been disabled for customers or all users.Ā You can enable it again by going to the "Add/Delete Industry" section.ĀĀ

803.1 Go to Settings > Industries > Add/Delete Industries.
803.2 Click on the "Added Industries" tab at the top of the page.
803.3 Look for the missing industry and check the "Customer Status" and/or "Status" columns to see if one or both say "Disabled".
803.4 To enable the industry, click the toggle button(s) to change them from "Disabled" to "Enabled".

Missing Sections or Services
Ģ "My form is missing an entire section (such as frequencies, service categories, packages, etc)."
Ģ "My form is missing one or more options under a section."
Ģ "Customers cannot see my service options even though I can see them on the admin-end."
Ģ "Whenever a customer tries to book they see the message 'Either a service category, frequency, location, package, or variable is missing from the form. Please check your industry settings to continue."

If you are missing sections or options for your form, they may not have been added,Āor the "display to" settingsĀhave been disabled for customers.Ā ĀCertain sections require at least one option for the form to function correctly.Ā There are a few places you can check to resolve these issues.

804 A section is missing an option.ĀEvery form needs at least one option saved under the frequency, service category,Āand pricing sections (variables parameters, packages, items, etc).ĀĀIf you have locationsĀenabled, you must also have at least one location added to this section.Ā

804.1 To check that you have at least one frequency set up, go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Frequencies.
804.2 If the page says "Frequencies not found", you will need to add one by clicking the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page.

Ģ Click here to learn how to set up one or more frequencies for your form.
804.3 To check that you have at least one service category set up, go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Categories.
804.4 If the page says "Service categories not found", you will need to add one by clicking the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page.

Ģ Click here to learn how to set up one or more service categories for your form.
804.5 To check that you have at least one variable set up, go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [1 or 4] > Pricing Parameters.
804.6 If the page says "Pricing parameters not found", you will need to add one by clicking the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page.

Ģ Click here to learn how to set up one or more variables for your form.
804.7 To check that you have at least one package set up, go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 2Ā> Packages.
804.8 If the page says "Packages not found", you will need to add one by clicking the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page.

Ģ Click hereĀto learn how to set up one or more packages for your form.
804.9 To check that you have at least one item set up, go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 3Ā> Items.
804.10 If the page says "Items not found", you will need to add one by clicking the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page.

Ģ Click hereĀto learn how to set up one or more items for your form.
804.11 To check that you have at least one add-onĀset up, go to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 3Ā> Add-ons.
804.12 If the page says "Add-ons not found", you will need to add one by clicking the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page.

Ģ Click hereĀto learn how to set up one or more add-ons for your form.
804.13 To check if you have locations enabled for your form, go toĀSettings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] and look for a "Locations" option at the top of the drop-down menu.
804.14 If there is no "Locations" section, you do not need to take any further action.
804.15 If there is a "Locations" section, select it from the drop-down menu and check to see if the page says "Locations not found".
804.16 If this is the case, click the blue "Add New" button at the top of the page to add a location for your form.

Ģ Click here to learn how to add a location to your form.
804.17 You can also disable locations if you do not want to use them at all.

Ģ Click here to learn how to disable locations for your industries or booking forms.
805 Your "Display" settings are set to admin only.Ā This is a very common reason why an admin or staff can view an option but the customer cannot.Ā You can fix this by updating the "Display" section of the missing option.ĀĀ

805.1 Open the form section with the missing option by going to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > [Locations/Frequencies/Service Categories/Pricing Parameters/Packages/Items/Add-Ons/Extras].
805.2 Locate the missing option in the list.
805.3 Select "Options", and "Edit" to open up the settings for that option.
805.4 Scroll down to the "Display" or "Display On" section and select "Customer frontend, backend, & admin".
805.5 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
806 Dependency selections are missing.Ā If you use "dependencies" (such as the pricing depending on which location the client picks), it is important to check that these services have at least one option selected.   Ā

806.1 Open the form section with the missing option by going to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > [Frequencies/Service Categories/Pricing Parameters/Packages/Items/Add-Ons/Extras].
806.2 Locate the missing option in the list.
806.3 Select "Options", and "Edit" to open up the settings for that option.
806.4 Look for the question "Should the [Frequencies/Service Categories/Pricing Parameters/Packages/Items/Add-Ons/Extras] be based on the [Frequencies/Service Categories/Pricing Parameters/Packages/Items/Add-Ons/Extras]?"
806.5 Make sure at least one box has been checked next to the options listed below.
806.6 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Payment Method Issues
Ģ "The debit/credit or cash/check option is missing from the form."
Ģ "I went to book an appointment and when I tried booking with a credit/debit card, I got an error message and/or couldn't complete my booking."

If you or your customers are experiencing any booking form issues regarding the add card/payment section, you should first check to see if you have enabled at least one payment method for customers.ĀIf customers are receiving an error message when they try to enter a debit or credit card on the booking form, you will need to check your payment processor settings.

807 Enable your customer payment methods.Ā If one or both of the payment options are missing from the form, they have likely been disabled in your general store options.ĀĀ

807.1 To check, please go to Settings > General > Store Options > General.
807.2 Click on the "Store Info" subcategory to display the settings in this section.
807.3 Scroll down to the "Accepted Forms of Payment" section.
807.4 If the boxes next to "Credit/Debit Card" and/or "Cash/Check" are unchecked, check the box(es) for the option you'd like to enable.
807.5 Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
808 Check your payment processor connection.Ā If you or your customers receive a red error message when trying to enter credit card information into the booking form, there is likely a problem with how the payment processor has been connected.

808.1 Use the following links to review your payment processor connection.

Ģ Click here to review the setup guide for payments via Stripe.
Ģ Click here to review the setup guide for payments via Square.
Ģ Click here to review the setup guide for payments via PayPal (via Braintree).
808.2 Check that the entire key as displayed in the payment processor dashboard has been pasted in the connect payment processor section in BookingKoala.
808.3 MostAPI keys and/or account numbersĀconsist of many characters.
808.4 Some keys, especially secret keys, may require you to click on an option to reveal the whole key.Ā Generally, the preview for a secret key will only display the first several characters with an ellipse (...) after it.

Availability and Scheduling Issues
Click here if you are experiencing any issues relating to booking spots, no dates/times, or provider availability with your form.

Still Experiencing Issues?
Please contact our support team at support@bookingkoala.com with a summary of the issue you are encountering.

Related Articles

[Test mode and disabling forms and industries

Learn how to disable forms and/or industries for customer use and place a form under test mode.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/turn-off-delete-forms-industries)[Offer different services on the customer end

Learn how to set up services that display for existing customers or can only be booked by admin/staff.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/offer-differenct-services-on-the-customer-end)[Industries and booking forms

Learn more about the difference between industries and booking forms, and how to find the right booking form for your business.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/industries-and-booking-forms)[Frequency dependencies

Learn how to enable and set up booking form dependencies to charge different rates based on the frequency of a booking.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-frequency-dependencies)[Location dependencies

Learn how to enable and set up booking form dependencies to charge different rates based on the location of the booking.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-location-dependencies)[Payment processors overview

Learn which payment processors you can connect to BookingKoala and how they work.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/payment-processors-overview)[Add or combine forms

Learn how to add another form to your industry and combine two or more forms together to give your customers additional options when booking.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-or-combine-forms)

Did you find this article helpful?

Yes No

Previous

Why no dates/times show when scheduling

Next



Why no dates/times show when scheduling
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/why-no-dates-times-show-when-scheduling

Why no dates/times show when scheduling
Learn how to fix issues relating to missing booking spots, provider availability, and scheduling.

Last updated on 14 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Reasons why no dates/times are showing on the booking form
Ģ How to troubleshoot and correct common availability issues

Why is there no availability on my booking form?
Based on previous issues others faced with their forms, we put together a guide to help you solve the problem(s) you are experiencing. The majority of these issues involve the following sections:
Ģ Scheduling settings
Ģ Provider settings
Ģ Booking spots

Troubleshooting Steps for Missing Availability
809 First, you'll want to check if you have added at least one provider to your BookingKoala account. When you are ready to create real bookings, schedule customers, and add providers, you will need to flush the test data from the system. This removes, amongst other things, the test provider that comes with your account. If you have not yet added one or more providers to replace the test provider, this will leave you with no availability.

810 Go to: Providers > Providers and check the listing for at least one provider profile.

? If you have NOT added a provider yet, please create a provider profile. Then, proceed to step 2.
? If you have added at least one provider to your account, proceed to step 2.
811 Next, you'll want to check if your calendar availability is based on provider availability or not. This step helps you determine how your calendar displays booking spots: based on the provider's schedule or exclusively based on your booking spots and spot limits.

812 Go to: Settings > General > Store Options > Scheduling tab > Scheduling section.

? If you answered "Yes" to the question, "Would you like to check the spots availability based on the providers/teams availability?", proceed to step 3.
? If you answered "No" to this question, proceed to step 5.
813 If your calendar is based on your providers' availability, you will need to check that you have added a schedule for at least one of your providers. If none of your providers have a schedule added yet, booking spots will not show on your calendar.

814 Go to: Providers > Providers and click on a provider's name to view their profile. Once there, click on the "Schedule" tab at the top of their profile.

? If you see green boxes with a start and end time on the provider's calendar, they have availability added to their schedule. Proceed to step 4.
? If the provider's schedule is empty, you will need to add their availability. Then, if availability is still not showing, proceed to step 4.
815 If you have added a provider with a schedule but customers are still not seeing any availability, there may be a provider setting that is blocking the system from showing spots.

816 Go to: Providers > Providers and click on a provider's name to view their profile. Once there, click on the Settings tab at the top of the profile. Scroll down until you see the question "Turn off this provider or team from being booked by any customer but can be booked by admin/staff only?"

? If you answered "Yes" to this question, your provider will not show as available on the customer end and only the admin/staff will be able to see availability for this provider when checking the schedule. If this is incorrect, change the answer to this to "No" and then click the "Save" button at the bottom of the page. Then, proceed to step 5 if spots are still not showing.
? If you answered "No" to this question, proceed to step 5.
817 Next, you will want to check that your booking spots are set up and enabled. Booking spots are the start times or arrival ranges you and your customers see on the calendar.

818 Go to: Settings > Booking Spots > Maximum Settings

? First, check that you've added at least one booking spot or arrival range to your days of the week using the "Add New" button, or the "Quick Add" option at the top of the page.
? Next, make sure the button below the name of the day is set to green/"Enabled". If it is set to "Disabled", you can toggle the button to "Enabled". Repeat this process with any other days of the week you would like to show booking spots.
? If you have enabled spot limits for your bookings spots, these will control how many jobs are booked per day. If the number of spots is set to "0", you will not be able to select any times for those days. You can either set the limit to a number greater than 0, or disable spot limits altogether.
? If the admin/staff can see booking spots on the calendar but customers cannot, it may be that one or more of your booking spots are set to admin only. If this is the case, you can click the pencil icon to edit the booking spot and set it to "Both" (customers and admin/staff). If spots are still not showing, proceed to step 6.
? If you've enabled separate booking spots for each location, you should use the location filter at the top of the page to check that you've added spots for each of your locations.
819 If you are still not seeing availability on your calendar and you have locations enabled, you'll want to check if you have added at least one location to your BookingKoala account. When you flush the test data from the system, this removes the test location that comes with your account. If locations are enabled and you have not yet added one or more locations to replace the test location, this will leave you with no availability.

820 First, check if locations are enabled for your account by going to Settings > General > Store Options > General tab > Locations section.

? If you have selected "Zip/Postal code based" or "Named based" for the question, "How do you want to manage the locations?" you have locations enabled. Proceed to step 7.
? If you have selected "No Location" and would like to continue not using locations for your form, proceed to step 10.
821 If locations are enabled, you must ensure that at least one location has been added to your booking form.

822 You can check by going to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Locations.

? If there are no locations in this section, click the "Add New" button at the top of the page and follow the instructions on how to add a new or existing location. If availability is still not showing after this, please proceed to step 8.
? If locations have been added to this section, proceed to step 8.
823 Next, you'll want to check if at least one provider is enabled for your location(s). This only applies if your scheduling settings are set to check availability based on form parameters.

824 To check if this applies to you, go to Settings > General > Store Options > Scheduling tab > Provider Availability section.

? If you have selected "Yes" for the question, "Would you like the providers' availability to be based on selections made on the booking form?", proceed to step 9.
? If you have selected "No" for this question, proceed to step 10.
825 To check if one or more providers are enabled for your locations and services, you will need to check your providers' form settings.

826 Go to: Providers > Providers > [Provider Name] > Settings tab > Forms tab

? Scroll down and check that all of the proper services and locations have been enabled for this provider. If they are not enabled, check the box(es) next to each service and location for which you would like them to receive jobs. After you click the "Save" button, check your booking calendar for spots again.

If you are unable to see openings on your booking form calendar despite following these steps, please contact us at support@bookingkoala.com and we will be happy to take a closer look for you.



Set up pricing parameters for form 4
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/set-up-pricing-parameters-for-form-4

Set up pricing parameters for form 4
Learn more about pricing parameters in Form 4 and how to set up variables and a pricing parameter category for your booking form

Last updated on 26 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What variables and pricing parameter categories are
Ģ How to set up pricing for Form 4
Ģ How to add and modify a pricing parameter category
Ģ How to add, modify, and change the order of variables

What are "pricing parameters"?
Pricing Parameters are the variables used to calculate the price (or estimate) for your services.

In Form 4, pricing parameters come in the form of variables and a single variable category, referred to as the pricing parameter category. The pricing parameter category is a description of what is being measured, while variables are options associated with the rates used to estimate the booking's price and/or time.

Form 4 has a single pricing parameter category which can contain one or more variables. The booking total is calculated by selecting a variable from the drop-down menu and then entering the total number of units/items/measurements being serviced.

For example, the form pictured above has a pricing parameter category called "Property Size" (only visible in the backend) with two different variables: "Square Feet" and "By Room".
Ģ The variable for "Square Feet" charges $0.12 per square foot and estimates the job length by multiplying the total square feet by 55 seconds.
Ģ The variable for "By Room" charges $55.00 per room and estimates the job length by multiplying the total room count by 30 minutes.

New variables can be added to your form at any time. Any variables that came with your industry's default booking form can be edited, archived, re-activated, or deleted.

How to Add and Modify the Pricing Parameter Category
The first step in setting up your form's variable(s) will be to create a new pricing parameter category or edit the existing pricing parameter category for your form. To begin, go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameter

Click on the orange "Manage Variables" button on the top right corner of the page.

Add a New Pricing Parameter Category

Click on the blue "Add New" button to add the pricing parameter category for your form.
Ģ Please note: You will only see this button there are no pricing parameter categories currently added to your form. Form 4 allows for a single pricing parameter category.

Next, enter the name of your pricing parameter category. The category name is used to describe your unit(s) of measurement, like "Time", "Distance", "Home Size", or some other quantifiable feature.

For example, if you use square footage and/or square meters to calculate the booking total, your pricing parameter category's name could be "Property Size". If you only use square feet to calculate prices, the pricing parameter category could just be called "Square Feet".

Once you've typed in the name of the category, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the section.

A green system alert will appear in the top right corner confirming the category has been saved.

Edit the Pricing Parameter Category

To edit your pricing parameter category, click "Options" and select "Edit" from the "Pricing Parameter Categories" page (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 4 > Pricing Parameters > Manage Variables).

Enter the new name into the box and then click the blue "Save" button at the bottom corner of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the pricing parameter category has been updated successfully.

Delete the Pricing Parameter Category

It is not possible to delete your pricing parameter category unless you cancel any active or past-due bookings in the system that use the category. Instead, we recommend editing the pricing parameter category if you would like to make any changes to its label in the system.

However, if you do want to delete the pricing parameter category for any reason, click on "Options" and select "Delete" from the "Pricing Parameter Categories" page (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 4 > Pricing Parameters > Manage Variables).

A pop-up window will ask if you want to delete this category. Click "Yes" to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the pricing parameter category has been updated successfully.

How to Add and Modify Variables
Once you are finished setting up your pricing parameter category, you can proceed back to the main Pricing Parameters section to begin adding your variable(s). Please go to:

Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameter

Add a Variable: Details Tab

Click the blue "Add New" button at the top of the page.

You will be redirected to the "Details" tab on the "Add Variable" page.

First, add a Name for the new variable. This will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.

If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below. If you use this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name you put in the "Different on customer end" box.

For example, if your pricing parameter category is called "Property Size", you may want to use the name "Square Feet (Residential)" on the backend for admin and stuff but display "Square Feet" on the front end for your customers.

Below the name(s), there is a place to enter a Description of the variable. This is only seen by the admin/staff with permission to edit the variable.

Check the box next to "Show explanation icon on form" if you would like to add an explanation icon next to the variable on the form. The explanation is displayed when the user hovers over the icon with their cursor.

If you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the variable, check the box next to "Enable pop-up on selection" and type in the message you would like to display.

You can also customize when the pop-up will display. The options are:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.
Ģ Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only: on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.
Ģ Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Next, under the "Display" section, select an option for which users will be able to see this variable on the booking form. The options are:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The variable can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The variable can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The variable can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Near the bottom of the page, set up the price and time for the variable.
Ģ If your industry uses service areas, there will be an "S.A." label just above these boxes.
Ģ If you have a storefront or office, there will be an "M.L." (merchant location) label instead.
Ģ If your business uses both service areas and merchant locations, both options will be provided. This allows you to set different prices for service areas versus store locations.

For the variable's price, enter how much it costs to service just one unit of this variable.

For example, let's say a carpet cleaning business offers rates based on square feet. They charge $0.13 per square foot for commercial services. Thus, the variable "Square Feet (Commerical)" would have a rate of $0.13 per single square foot.

If a customer enters "1000" into the field after selecting this variable, the booking estimate will be $130.00 (1000 x $0.13).

For the variable's time, enter how much time it takes to complete one unit of measurement for the service. If you do not want any time associated with the variable, select "0" under the "Seconds" menu.

Adding time lengths to your variables helps with estimating the job length and ensures more accurate scheduling if you check the length against the providers' availability. Click here to learn more about setting up your account's scheduling and availability preferences.

When the customer enters a number into the form, the estimated time length of the booking is calculated by multiplying the variable's time length by that number.

For example, let's say it takes "4 seconds" per square foot for residential cleaning services. If the client enters 1000 square feet, the service length estimate will be approximately 1 hour and 6 minutes.

At the bottom of the first page, there is a checkbox next to the word "Default". Check this option if you want a specific variable to be the default choice for its variable category on the booking form.

If no variable is set as the default, the form will display the variables in order of priority as set in the pricing parameters section (covered in an upcoming section).

Once you have finished making your selections, click the blue "Next" button at the bottom of the page.

Add a Variable: Dependencies Tab

The next tab in the "Add Variable Page" is called the "Dependencies" tab.

When you enable dependencies for a variable, you gain the ability to associate that variable with select options on the booking form instead of using the same variable for every location, service category, frequency, etc.

A. Click this link to enable variable dependencies on frequency, service category, and/or location Dependencies must be enabled under the Form Settings section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings). This box will not display if dependencies are enabled for all possible options.

B. Options for dependencies on extras will be displayed here. If you have not added any extras yet, click this link to open a new tab and launch the "Add Extra" page.

Once dependencies are enabled, any options that have been added to each section will be displayed next to a checkbox. If the box is checked, the variable will display as an option for that particular selection. If the box is not checked, the variable will not be displayed for that selection.

Click here to learn how to enable dependencies and other settings for your booking form.

Once you are finished setting up your dependencies, click the blue "Next" button at the bottom of the page.

Add a Variable: Providers Tab

The final tab, called "Providers", is only visible when you add a new variable and cannot be accessed after the variable has been saved. This is because this section is used to block or exclude providers from accepting/being scheduled with bookings that contain this variable.

To use this section, check the box next to the name(s) of the provider(s) you do not want to receive jobs with this variable.

For example, if this variable is called "5", as in "5 bedrooms", you would check off any providers who would not want to service homes with 5 bedrooms.

This section will only display if you have enabled the option for provider availability to be based on the selections made on the booking form. Click here to learn how to enable or disable this option to set provider availability using form parameters like location, frequency, service category, pricing parameters, extras, etc.

At the bottom of the page, click the blue "Save" button to add the new variable to your form.

If your form has more than one variable, repeat these steps until you have represented all of your service rates.

Duplicate a Variable

If you are creating a list of variables that have similar categories, prices, or settings, the duplicate option can be used to make a copy of an existing variable.

Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).

Select "Options" next to the variable you'd like to copy.

Click "Duplicate".

A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this variable. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The word "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new variable so you can tell it apart from the original.

Once you have finished making any adjustments, click the blue "Save" button at the end of the steps to update the variable.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the variable has been duplicated successfully.

Edit a Variable

Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).

Select "Options" next to the variable you'd like to edit.

Click "Edit".

You will be brought to the Edit Variable page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like.

Click the blue "Save" button to save any changes.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the variable has been updated successfully.

Important note: If you edit a variable's price or length of time while there are active or pending bookings/booking charges using the variable, those existing bookings will retain the original rate. All new bookings will use the new price and/or time.

To use the new variable for existing bookings, the booking can be edited, and the new variable can be selected instead of the current option, which will say "Archived" next to it.

Archive a Variable

To manually archive a variable, go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).

Select "Options" next to the variable you'd like to archive.

Select "Archive".

A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this variable. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The variable will now be listed under the "Archived" menu. Once a variable has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin/staff can see it on the booking form unless it was already selected for an existing booking.

Unarchive a Variable

If you would ever like to start using an archived variable again, you can easily "unarchive" it.

Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).

Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Archived".

Select "Options" next to the variable you'd like to unarchive.

Select "Unarchive".

A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this variable. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The variable will be moved back to the "Active" pricing parameter listing. You and your customers will now be able to see and use the variable again on the booking form.

Reordering the Variables

You can change the order of the variables on your booking form.

Go to the Pricing Parameters section (Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters).

Click and hold anywhere on a variable's row to drag it into a new position in the list.

Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.



Setting up add-ons for form 3
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-add-ons-for-form-3-982a96e1

Setting up add-ons for form 3
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-add-ons-for-form-3-982a96e1

Learn how to add and modify add-ons for form 3.

Last updated on 29 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are add-ons
Ģ How to add a new add-on
Ģ How to reorder your add-ons
Ģ How to edit, duplicate, archive/unarchive, and delete add-ons

What are add-ons?
Add-ons, used in forms 2 and 3, represent different services your customer can purchase. If you are looking for an article on how to set up add-ons for Form 2, please click here.  

In Form 3, add-ons are the way to set prices for your services. Customers first select an item to view all the possible add-ons they can book.  

For example, a pet grooming business may cater to cats, dogs, and birds. These would be their items in this form type and do not incur any cost on their own. If they offer services for brushing, shampooing, conditioning, and nail trimming, these services would be their add-ons.  

In a different example, Form 3 can be used for the carpet cleaning industry. The items for the form would be the type of room, and the add-ons would be the types of services one can request for that room--spot cleaning, shampooing, conditioning, and/or steam cleaning.  

There are countless ways you can set up Form 3 add-ons.  

Add a New Add-On
To begin setting up your add-ons, go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry name] > Form 3 > Addons

Click on the blue "+ Add New" button at the top-right corner of the page. 
You will be redirected to the "Details" tab on the"Add Add-Ons" page.

Details Tab
Name First, add a Name for the add-on. This will be displayed on both the admin side and the customer side of the software.
If you would like for a different name to display on the customer's end, check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the name in the box below. If you used this option, the admin will see the top-most name, while the customer will see the name that you put in the "Different on customer end" box.
For example, the pet grooming industry may have different rates for their "brushing" service depending on the species and size. They use the name "Brushing - cats" to more easily identify and edit this add-on in the backend. On the front end, however, customers will see just "Brushing" as the add-on name.

Description Below, there is a box for entering a Description of the add-on. This will only be seen by you when viewing this page. This may be helpful, especially if you have multiple items with the same name.  

Explanation If you would like to add an explanation to the add-on that the customer can see, check the box next to where it says "Show explanation icon on form". This will add an icon next to the add-on in the booking form. When the customer hovers over the icon with their curser, the explanation will be displayed.

Enable Pop-UpIf you would like to display a pop-up message when the customer selects the add-on, check the box next to "Enable popup on selection" and type in the message you would like to display.
You can also customize when the pop-up will display:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The pop-up will display for both customers and admin/staff on the front-end and back-end of the site.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The pop-up will only display for the admin or when the customer is logged into their dashboard.
Ģ Customer only (frontend & backend) - The pop-up will display for the customer only: on the front-end of the site as well as when they are logged in.
Ģ Admin only - The pop-up will only display for admin and staff members.

Display Below the popup section, select where you would like to display this add-on. Under "Display", select one of the following options:
Ģ Customer frontend, backend & admin - The add-on can be selected by new customers, existing customers, and the admin/staff for booking.
Ģ Customer backend & admin - The add-on can only be selected by existing customers or admin/staff and will not display for new customers.
Ģ Admin only - The add-on can only be used by admin or staff when making bookings.

Price and job length increase based on quantity? Next, decide if you would like the price and job length of the add-on to increase based on quantity. Below where it says, "Price and job length increase based on quantity?", choose one of the following options:
Ģ Yes - Customers can add multiples of this add-on to their service and it will affect the total price and job length.
Ģ No - This add-on can be added multiple times but will only count towards the service total and time length once.
If you selected "Yes" to make your add-ons quantity-based, decide whether you would like the pricing and time for this add-on to have a Manual or Multiply Structure.

MultiplyThis option will multiply the add-on price and time and then add it to the customer's total.
For example, the cost of "brushing" is $20 and it takes 20 minutes to complete. When Multiply structure has been enabled, two of these services would cost $40 and take 40 minutes to complete. If the customer selects three of these add-ons, the total will be increased by $60 and 60 minutes.

ManualThis option allows you to set up a custom structure for how each additional add-on affects the price and time. 
Once you select "manual", an extra box for each possible quantity will be added to the Price & Time section below. 
Using the same example as above, the cost of "brushing" is $20 and it takes 20 minutes to complete. When Manual structure has been enabled, you can enter a custom rate and time length for the second, third, etc. add-ons. 
If the customer adds this add-on twice, the service total will be increased by $35 and 30 minutes. If they select the add-on three times, the additional cost will be $50, and 40 minutes will be added.
For more information and examples of how to set up multiply or manual prices and times for add-ons (and extras), click here.

Items Check the boxes next to which items you would like to offer this add-on for. If you uncheck a box, customers will not be able to see or select that add-on for their service.
For example, the service "Brushing" is not available for pet birds so that box has been unchecked.  

Price & TimeNext, you will set up the Price and Time for the add-on. If your industry uses service areas, you will see "S.A." labeled just above these boxes. 
If you have a storefront or office, you will see "M.L." (merchant location) instead. 
If your business uses both service areas and merchant locations, you will have options for both sections. This allows you to set different prices depending on where the service is being performed.
For the add-on's Price, enter how much it costs the customer to add this service to their booking.
If your add-on is quantity-based with a manual structure, enter the price for each quantity.
If you do not want to charge a fee for the add-on, enter "0" in the pricing box.
In the Time boxes, select how long the add-on will take to service. If you would like your scheduling to be based on provider availability, we highly suggest you set times for each add-on. This helps when it comes time to schedule so the booking is not assigned to someone who does not have enough time to complete it.
If you do not want the add-on to increase the time, set the minutes box to "0".
You can set a price and time for each item that has been enabled.

Select IconAdd-ons include icons in the booking form. Under "Select icon", click the icon image to pick an icon from the system, or click "Browse" to select a file from your device.
Please note: The image size should not be more than 300x300 pixels or it will be automatically resized to fit those constraints. The allowed image types are JPEG, JPG, PNG, and GIF.
Then, click the "Next" button at the bottom of the page to proceed to the second tab in the add-on creation process.
The next tab is the dependencies tab. Dependencies are used to show or hide add-ons based on other factors like location, frequency, items, etc.

Enable Dependencies from Form SettingsDependencies are enabled under the Form Settings section. Click the link to enable dependencies for your add-ons.
Once you are directed to the Form Settings section, select "Options" then "Edit" to view the form settings for Form 3.
Scroll down towards the bottom of the page and check off the boxes next to the dependencies you would like to enable. 
For example, if you would like to have different-priced add-ons depending on the client's city, you would scroll down to the option "Which option(s) should the add-on show for?" and check the box next to "Location".
Or, let's say your packages, which cater to different home sizes, have different add-ons with different prices. In this case, you would check the box next to "Packages" to enable dependencies for "Which option(s) should the add-ons show for?"
Click the "Save" button and then you can resume work on your add-on's dependencies section.

Enable Add-On DependenciesTo enable dependencies under the package's Dependencies tab, select "Yes" for the question "Should the add-on show based on the [frequency/location/service category/package]?" and then check the boxes next to the [frequencies/locations/service categories/items] you want to associate with this package.
In this example, this add-on will only be displayed for the cities that have been selected in the dependencies section.
Once you have finished entering your preferences, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page. 
Repeat this step until you have set up all of your add-ons.

Changing the Add-On Order
Once you have added multiple add-ons, you can update the order in which they are displayed on your booking form. Go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 3 > AddonsTo change the order, click and hold an add-on to drag and drop it into a new position in the list.
Once you are satisfied with the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom of the page.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the priority has been updated successfully.

How to Edit, Duplicate, Archive, Unarchive, and Delete Add-Ons
If you ever want to make further adjustments to your add-ons, you can always go to:  Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form  3 > Addons

Edit an Add-OnTo edit an add-on, click on "Options" and select "Edit".
You will be brought to the Edit Add-Ons page where you can modify any of the settings you'd like. Just be sure to click the blue "Save" button to save any changes.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the add-on has been updated successfully. 

Duplicate an Add-OnTo make a copy of an existing add-on, click on "Options" and select "Edit". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this add-on. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The phrase "-Copy" will be added to the name of the new add-on so you can tell it apart from the original. If you change the name, be sure to pick something different from the original name.
Once you have finished making your adjustments, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the add-on has been duplicated successfully. 

Delete an Add-OnIf you want to permanently delete an add-on, click on "Options" and select "Delete". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to delete this add-on. Click "Yes" to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the add-on has been deleted successfully.

Archive an Add-On If you would prefer to keep an add-on but not use it for our form right now, you can instead choose to Archive it. Once an add-on has been archived, neither the customer nor the admin can select it in the booking form.
To archive an add-on, click on "Options" and select "Archive". A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to archive this add-on. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The add-on will now be listed under the "Archived" menu.

Unarchive an Add-OnIf you would ever like to start using an archived add-on again, you can easily "unarchive" it. Click on the drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Archived". 
Click on "Options" and select "Unarchive" next to the add-on you would like to resume. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to unarchive this add-on. Click "Yes" to proceed.
The add-on will be moved back to the "Active" pricing parameter listing. You will now be able to use the add-on in your booking form again.



Different pricing for different service categories
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/different-pricing-for-different-service-categories

Different pricing for different service categories
Learn how to set up different prices that depend on the service category.

Last updated on 29 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to set up different prices for different service categories
Ģ How to set up pricing parameter dependencies

Offer Different Pricing for Different Service Categories
Let's say you run a cleaning business and have the following service categories, each with different pricing: Regular cleaning, Deep cleaning, and Move in/out cleaning. How does one achieve this in BookingKoala? The answer is by setting up pricing parameter dependencies.

Dependencies are when the pricing or availability of a service relies on another factor, like the service category, frequency, etc. In this case, the pricing parameters depend on the service category to display the correct pricing. If our test cleaning company has different rates per each of its three service categories, this means there would be three separate sets of pricing parameters to correspond with each category.

For example, let's say this cleaning business uses the number of bedrooms and bathrooms as their pricing parameter variables. This means there would be three rates for the 1 bedroom variable: one for regular cleaning, one for deep cleaning, and another for move-in/out cleaning.

Create Different Service Categories

If you haven't already, the first step is to create the service categories you need for your form. Service categories are the broader categories for the services that your business offers. If you offer multiple services, the customer will be able to browse through them all and select the service they are interested in to see pricing.

You can add a new service category by going to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Category

At the top of the "Service Category" page, click the blue "Add New" button.

Enabling Service Category Dependencies

To set this up in BookingKoala, one must first ensure dependencies are enabled.

Please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Settings > Form Settings

Click "Options" then "Edit" to open the form.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and check the box next to Service Category for the question, "Which option(s) should the variables show for?"

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Setting Up Service Category Dependant Pricing

The next step is to update and/or create pricing for each service category in the pricing parameters section. To do this, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form 1 > Pricing Parameters

We recommend editing your existing pricing first before creating new sets of pricing. Select "Options" then "Edit" to open an existing variable.

If you haven't created any variables yet, you can create your first variable by clicking the "Add New" button at the top of the Pricing Parameters page.

Once inside the Create or Edit Variable page, go to the Dependencies tab.

Scroll down to the question "Should the variables show based on the service category?" and select "Yes". Then, check the box(es) next to the categories you would like to use this variable/pricing parameter.

In this example, the variable will just show for the Standard cleaning category.

Once you've made your selections, click "Save" at the bottom right corner of the page to update/save your variable.

Once you are directed back to the general Pricing Parameters page, you will see that the variable you just edited now displays the service category(ies) you've set for the variable.

Repeat these steps until you have set up your first set(s) of pricing.

Then, use the "Options", and then "Duplicate" buttons to copy your topmost variable to begin creating a new set of pricing.

If you'd like, you can use the "Different on customer end" option to label which category will correspond with this new variable. Enter the admin-end Name into the topmost field, then check the box next to "Different on customer end" and enter the label you want customers to see.

In this example, the "1-999" [square feet] variable will correspond with the Deep cleaning category.

Scroll down the details section and adjust your pricing and timing as needed to correspond with the new category in which you are creating pricing.

Then, click the Next button at the bottom of the page to go to the Dependencies tab.

Then, check off the boxes next to the service category or categories this variable will belong to.

In this example, the variable will correspond with the Deep Cleaning category of pricing.

Finally, click the "Save" button at the bottom of the page. When you are redirected back to the general pricing parameters page, you will see your new variable added to the bottom of the list.

Repeat these steps until you have created pricing for all of your service categories.



Minimum price and time limits
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/minimum-price-and-time-limits

Minimum price and time limits
Learn how to set up or disable the minimum price and time limits for service categories.

Last updated on 27 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to enable/disable minimum price limits
Ģ How to enable/disable minimum time limits
Ģ How to edit the text that shows up when a limit is not met

Minimum Price and Time Limits
One of the many features located in your service category's settings is the ability to set minimum price and time limits. These limits ensure that you are making money to provide a service to the customer.

In BookingKoala, minimum price and time limits are enforced when the client attempts to book their service. If the minimum for one of these is not met, a message of your choosing will be displayed at the top of the page. The client will not be able to check out until they add more services to increase the time or price and meet the minimum(s) you have set.

Enable or Disable A Minimum Price Limit

To enable or disable a minimum price limit, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Categories

Next, open the service category you would like to edit by selecting "Options" then "Edit".

Scroll down the page until you see the Set minimum price option.
Ģ If you are looking to enable minimum pricing for this service category, check the box next to "Set minimum price".
Ģ If you are looking to disable minimum pricing for this service category, uncheck the box next to "Set minimum price".

If you have enabled a minimum price for the service category, enter it into the Price field below.

You will also want to select if you are checking the minimum price against the discounted total or the final total.

If you would like the system to check the minimum price for the complete recurring schedule instead of just the first booking, check the box next to "Check minimum price for complete recurring schedule."

Below this, check the box next to "Text to display" and enter your minimum pricing message into the box below.

Then, follow the "Next" buttons along the bottom of the page until you reach "Save", then click "Save" to update your service category.

Enable or Disable A Minimum Time Limit

To enable or disable a minimum time limit, please go to: Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Categories

Next, open the service category you would like to edit by selecting "Options" then "Edit".

Scroll down the page until you see the Set minimum time option.
Ģ If you are looking to enable minimum timing for this service category, check the box next to "Set minimum time".
Ģ If you are looking to disable minimum timing for this service category, uncheck the box next to "Set minimum time".

If you have enabled a minimum time for the service category, enter it into the Time field below.

Below this, check the box next to "Text to display" and enter your minimum time message into the box below.

Then, follow the "Next" buttons along the bottom of the page until you reach "Save", then click "Save" to update your service category.



8. Booking spots
Articles in this collection (4):

827 Booking spots overview
828 Setting up booking spots by location
829 Setting up holidays
830 Modify booking spot limits by date



Booking spots overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/booking-spots-overview

Booking spots overview
You will learn all about your booking spots and how to set them up

Last updated on 13 Jan, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you:

Ģ Learn what booking spots are
Ģ Find where your booking spots are located
Ģ How to set up spot limits
Ģ Learn why your booking spots may not be showing on your form

What are booking spots?
Booking Spots are the times you offer to clients to schedule their service.  Booking spots can be set up as fixed start times or arrival ranges.

For example, a business with fixed start times might have booking spots for 8 AM, 9 AM, 10 AM, 11 AM, 12 PM, etc.   In this case, the customer makes a selection expecting the service to begin at that exact time.

A business with arrival ranges would offer booking spots that look like 8-9 AM, 9-10 AM, 10-11 AM, etc.  In this example, the customer's selection would indicate that the service will begin anytime within the range provided.

When you first sign up for your BookingKoala account, your store comes with built-in default booking spots so you can test out your availability settings.

The default bookings spots are set up as fixed start times:

Ģ Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday
Ģ Every hour from 8 AM to 5 PM (ex: 8 AM, 9 AM, 10 AM, etc until 5 PM)

These can be modified or deleted depending on how your business operates.

Where are my booking spots located?
Your booking spots can be managed by going to:

Settings > Booking Spots

There are two or three sections under the Booking Spots tab (depending on your store options):

Ģ Maximum Settings - This is where you set up and control your default spots.
Ģ Daily Settings - (If you have enabled spot availability based on limits) This is where you can manage booking spots for a specific date.
Ģ Holidays - This is where you can close down booking spots for holidays or other days you need to block customers from booking on.

To enable spot availability based on limits, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Scheduling tab > Booking Spots section

For the question, " Would you like to manage spot availability based on limits? ",

Ģ Select " Yes " to add spot limits, including the daily settings sections, to manage your availability.

? There will be spot limits on the Maximum Settings page.  For example, if you have 25 teams available to work but have a spot limit of 20, only up to 20 jobs can be booked.
? There will be a Daily Settings section.
? The Daily Settings section will allow you to manually adjust spots per date, time, and location for each date and time.
Ģ Select " No " to base spot availability solely on provider availability.  For example, if you have 5 independent providers available at 3 PM, 3 PM has 5 spots.

? There will be no spot limits on the Maximum Settings page.
? There will not be a Daily Settings section.

Setting Up Booking Spots By Location
If your business offers different start times or arrival ranges depending on the location of the service, you may want to enable provider and availability per location.

For example, let's say an auto repair business has two locations: Uptown and Downtown.  The Uptown location lets customers book for an exact start time. The Downtown location offers arrival ranges instead as it is has a larger staff and can accommodate more flexibility.

To make sure customers see the correct options, they have enabled provider availability and schedules per location. This allows them to set up separate booking spots for their Uptown and Downtown locations.

To learn how to configure this for your store, click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-booking-spots-by-location) .

Modifying Booking Spots and Spot Limits
If you wish to keep most of your booking spots and would like to make some changes, there are multiple options to customize your spots. To make updates to your default booking spots, go to the Maximum Settings tab.

Add a New Time Spot

To add a new time slot, find the day of the week you wish to add a new spot to and click the blue " Add New " button.

A pop-up window will open.

First, select whether you want to add a " specific time only " or an " arrival window ".

Ģ Specific time only - Select this to create a spot with one fixed start time.
Ģ Arrival window - Select this to create a spot with an arrival range between two times.

If you have enabled provider availability and schedules per location, you can also select a specific location from the Location drop-down menu, or click " All ".

Next, select the Start time you wish to add.

If you are adding an arrival window, you will see options for both Start Time and End Time .

If you have enabled spot limits in your scheduling settings, there will be a " Limit " box. Click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-your-store-options-scheduling-tab) to learn how to enable this setting.

For the limit, enter the maximum number of spots you would like to offer for this time.  The maximum number of spots may differ from the total number of providers you have.

Ģ For example: If you have 30 available providers and 20 booking spots open, up to 20 bookings can be saved for this spot.

Under " Spot will display under ", decide who will be able to book these spots.

Ģ Admin only - Only an admin or staff account can schedule a booking for these spots.
Ģ Both - Customers and admin/staff can schedule bookings for these spots.

Once you are finished making your selections, click the blue " Save " button to add the booking spot to that day.

Edit or Delete a Time Spot

Time spots can be modified by clicking the edit or delete icons to the right of each spot.

Enable or Disable Days of the Week

You can also enable or disable spots for a specific day of the week by switching the " Enabled " toggle button to " Disabled ". A pop-up will appear asking if you would like to disable for "This location only" or "All locations".  Select " This location " and click the blue " Yes " button to proceed,

Apply One Day's Spots to Another

If you have set up booking spots for a specific day of the week, you can quickly copy them over to any other day by using the " Apply To " button.  This button is located on the far right side in each section for the day of the week.

Check the box next to the day(s) you would like to copy the booking spots over, or select " All " to apply these spots to all days.  Then, click the green " Apply " button to add the spots.

A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to make these changes for the selected day(s). Click " Yes " to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know the spots have been saved successfully.

Reset to Default

The system's default booking spots are set up as fixed start times, for:

Ģ Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday
Ģ Every hour from 8 AM to 5 PM (ex: 8 AM, 9 AM, 10 AM, etc until 5 PM)

If you would like to reset your booking spots back to the system default, click the red " Reset To Default " button at the top of the page.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to reset the booking spots to the default.  Click " Yes " to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner, letting you know that the spots have been reset successfully.

Setting Up Booking Spots Using the "Quick Add" Tool

If you wish to start over, you can delete the existing booking spots and use the " Quick Add" feature to create new spots.  To find this, go to:

Settings > Booking Spots > Maximum Settings

To begin, click the blue " Quick Add " button at the top of the page.  A pop-up window will open.

If you have enabled provider availability per location ( click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-booking-spots-by-location) to learn more), you can copy booking spots from another location into this location.  Click the radio button next to " Existing Location " and then select which location to copy from the drop-down menu. Click the blue " Copy " button to copy those spots to this location.

If you have not enabled booking spots per location or would like to set custom spots, continue with the " Quick Add " option.

Under " Make spots every ", select how often you would like a spot to appear. For example:

Ģ If you enter "1" in the " hour " box, booking spots will be generated for 12 AM, 1 AM, 2 AM, 3 AM, etc.
Ģ If you enter "0" in the hour box and "30" in the " minutes " box, spots will be generated for 12 AM, 12:30 AM, 1 AM, 1:30 AM, etc.

Select the earliest spot you would like to offer from under where it says " From ".  For example:

Ģ If you enter 8:00 AM, your earliest spot will be for 8 AM.
Ģ If you enter 1:00 PM, your earliest spot will be at 1 PM.

Under " To ", select the latest start time you would like to offer.

Ģ If you enter 11 AM, no spots will be generated after 11 AM.
Ģ If you enter 6 PM, no spots will be generated after 6 PM.

Below " Days ", check off the boxes next to each day you would like to have these spots. If you uncheck a box, whatever spots currently exist for that day will remain unchanged.

For the " Limit ", enter the maximum number of spots you would like to offer for this time.

Under " Spot will display under ", decide who will be able to book these spots: the " Admin-only" , or " Both" customers and admin/staff.

Once you are finished making your selections, click the blue " Add " button at the bottom of the pop-up.  All of your booking spots will be generated automatically.

Why are my booking spots not showing up on my booking form?
Some reasons that your spots may not be showing are:

Ģ Provider schedules are not set up. Please review this article (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-provider-team-schedules-and-settings) on how to set up your providers' availability.
Ģ The job length plus the travel time goes longer than any provider can work.  If you do not want the system to check the job length against the provider's availability, please review this article (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-your-store-options-scheduling-tab) on how to set up your store's availability settings.
Ģ Due to the providers ' settings, the job details do not match any provider who can work the job. Learn more about where to update provider job settings in this article (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-a-provider-team-s-general-settings) , this article (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-a-provider-team-s-industry-settings) , and this article (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-a-provider-team-s-form-settings) .



Setting up booking spots by location
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-booking-spots-by-location

Setting up booking spots by location
Learn how to enable and set up booking spots that differ by location.

Last updated on 18 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where to enable provider availability and schedules per location
Ģ How to set up booking spots for a different location

Why enable separate availability per location?
This is a good option to enable if your business offers different start times or arrival ranges depending on the location where the service is taking place.

For example, let's say an auto repair business has two locations: Uptown and Downtown. The Uptown location lets customers book for an exact start time. The Downtown location offers arrival ranges instead as it is has a larger staff and can accommodate more flexibility.

To make sure customers see the correct options, they have enabled provider availability and schedules per location. This allows them to set up separate booking spots for their Uptown and Downtown locations.

Update the General Provider Settings
To begin setting up separate booking spots by location, you will first need to enable managing provider availability and schedules per location. This can be found by going to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider tab

Scroll down the Scheduling section and click the "plus sign" icon to display the options.

Scroll down toward the bottom of this section until you see the question, "How do you want to manage provider availability and schedule?" Select the radio button next to "Per location".

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the screen to update your settings.

Setting Up New Booking Spots by Location
Once your settings have been updated, you can begin setting up your booking spots for each location. Go to:

Settings > Booking Spots > Maximum Settings

There will now be a drop-down menu on the top left corner of the screen.

When "Default" is selected, you will be viewing the default booking spots for all locations. Click on the drop-down menu to select which location you would like to modify. The page will automatically reload with the booking spots for that location.

To learn more about how to modify and set up booking spots, click here.

Once you are done making your modifications, click the blue "Save Changes" button just below the location drop-down menu.

Just like the Maximum Settings section, you can also select a specific location to view or modify booking spots in the Daily Settings (if enabled) and Holidays tab.



Setting up holidays
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-holidays

Setting up holidays
Learn how to block access to booking spots for specific date(s) by adding a holiday.

Last updated on 21 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How holidays affect booking spots
Ģ How to set up a new holiday

Add a Holiday
If there is a specific date that your business will not be open, you can remove all booking spots for that date by setting up a Holiday. Adding a holiday automatically blocks all spots for that date, overriding any defaults you have set up.

To add a new holiday, go to: Settings > Booking Spots > Holidays

Click the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page.

An "Add Holiday" pop-up window will appear.

If you have enabled provider availability per location, you can choose a specific location or select "All" to set the holiday for all of your locations.

Next, select "Specific" to set an individual date as a holiday, or "Range" to select a range of dates.

If you have selected "Specific", you can also use the plus sign icon to add other individual dates to mark as closed for the holiday.

A description can be added for your reference.

If there are any bookings scheduled for the selected date(s), they will be displayed at the bottom of the pop-up window.

Any jobs that are already on the schedule will not be impacted by this change once you click the blue "Save" button. If you would like to cancel or reschedule these customers, you must edit their booking.

Once the holiday has been added, you can view and edit or delete it from the Holidays tab.



Modify booking spot limits by date
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/modify-spot-limits-by-date

Modify booking spot limits by date
Learn how to use the daily settings tab in the booking spots section to add, delete, or disable time spots.

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where to locate the daily settings for booking spots
Ģ How to add and delete booking spots for a specific date and time

Where can I find the booking spot daily settings?
If you have enabled scheduling based on spot limits, you will have a Daily Settings tab inside the Booking Spots section. This allows you to make adjustments to your spot limits for a specific time and/or date.

To see and make changes to your spot limits, go to: Settings > Booking Spots > Daily Settings

The Date column will display the total number of spots available and jobs scheduled for the entire day. The Time Spot columns will show available spots and scheduled jobs for that specific time.

Use the Date Range menu to select which date(s) you would like to view or select a pre-defined timeframe from the rightmost section of the menu.

Add/Remove Time Spots
Use the plus and minus buttons to adjust the spot limit for any day and time. If you would like to close down ALL spots for a specified date, set the Available Jobs to "0".

To reset the spot limit by to your default, click the three dots and select "Reset to Default ([#] jobs)".

To change where the spot displays, click on the pencil icon to the right of where it says "Display on".

Once you are satisfied with your updates, please remember to click the blue "Save Changes" button at the top of the page or the spots will reset to current default.

You can view any previous changes you've made by clicking the light blue "View Change History" button at the top of the page.

Click the plus sign icon on the far left of a log to see the specific changes that were made.

The orange "Refresh" button can be used if you do not want to save changes after making adjustments to any spots. It will show you the current limits for the selected date and time spot.



9. Customers
Articles in this collection (40):

831 Customer overview
832 Add, deactivate, or delete a customer
833 Setting up receipt emails
834 Multiple addresses and cards
835 Customer charges
836 Void a charge
837 Refund a charge
838 Charge an additional fee
839 Add a late tip
840 Manually place a credit card hold/preauthorization
841 Release a credit card hold/preauthorization
842 Retry a declined charge
843 How customers can add tips and parking fees for providers
844 How customers can view, print, and download service receipts
845 Referral credits
846 Block a customer from booking or logging in
847 Customer deactivation requests
848 How to export customer data
849 Customer dashboard explained
850 Locating invoices in the dashboard
851 Invoice module overview
852 How to edit, duplicate, or delete an invoice
853 Creating customer invoices
854 How to download or print an invoice
855 How to charge or change the status of a custom invoice
856 How to send an invoice
857 How to view invoice logs
858 Charge a booking or separate fee using the add charge option
859 Invoice payment Q&As
860 Recurring invoice Q&As
861 Separate charge feature
862 Customer booking charges
863 Partial/advance payments on invoices
864 How to send an invoice card link
865 Resend an invoice
866 Revert a cash/check charge
867 Add card link feature
868 Using the customer import tool
869 Recurring booking invoice per industry
870 Edit Custom Paid Invoice



Customer overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/customer-overview

Customer overview
Learn all of the things you and your customers can do with their account.

Last updated on30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ How to use each part of the "Customers" section
Ģ How to create, manage, and update customer accounts
Ģ What customers can use their account for
Ģ Processing customer charges, card holds, and refunds
Ģ Editing the content and appearance of the customer dashboard pages

Customer Overview
Click the links below to view instructions on how to set up the various features discussed in this overview.

Getting Started

Setting Up Your Store Options "Customer" Tab : Learn which features you can enable under the store options "Customer" tab.

Using the Import Tool : Learn how to import customers for faster migration.

Add, Deactivate or Delete a Customer : Learn how to create new customer accounts, process account deactivations, and delete accounts if necessary.

Connect a Stripe Account with a Custome Profile : Learn how to connect an individual customer account with a customer Stripe ID.

Setting Up Customer Receipts : Learn how to enable service receipts and customize how they will look.

Multiple Addresses and Cards : Learn how to save multiple addresses and credit cards in a customer's profile.

Enable/Disable Customers from Editing Quotes : Learn how to allow or block customers from editing the quotes you have sent them.

Customer Charges

Customer Charges : Learn how to set up which forms of payment you accept, how to charge bookings, and where to locate the Booking Charges section.

Void a Charge : Learn how to void a customer's charge.

Refund a Charge : Learn how to process a full or partial refund.

Charge an Additional Fee : Learn how to charge extra fees for a booking after the initial charge has already been processed.

Add a Late Tip : Learn how to add a tip after the initial booking charge has already been processed.

Manually Place a Credit Card Hold : Learn how to manually hold (or preauthorize) a customer's booking charge.

Release a Credit Card Hold : Learn how to release a credit card hold/preauthorization.

Retry a Declined Charge : Learn how to process declined booking charges.

Account Features and Resources

Log In As a Customer or Provider : Learn how to log in as a customer without logging out of your admin account.

Enable the Customer and Provider "My Drive" feature : Learn more about the "My Drive" feature and how to enable it for customers.

How Customers Can Add Tips and Parking Fees for Providers : Learn about the different ways a customer can leave a tip for their booking.

How Customers Can View, Print, and Download Service Receipts : Learn where customers can access booking invoices in their dashboard.

Referral Credits : Learn how to set up a referral system for your customers and how they earn credits.

Block a Customer From Booking or Logging In : Learn how to restrict access to a customer's dashboard, including how to block them from booking or even logging in.

Customer Deactivation Requests : Learn how to process a customer's account deactivation request.

How to Export Customer Data : Learn how to export your customer information into a .CSV file.

Customer Dashboard Pages

Edit the Customer Dashboard Page: This page allows customers to view their upcoming and past appointments, edit their personal information, update their passwords, view and edit their billing information, and view declined payments for past bookings.

Edit the Customer Edit Personal Details Page: This page allows customers to add a profile photo, edit their name, edit/add email addresses, edit/add phone numbers, and add/edit other contacts for their profile.

Edit the Customer Your Info & Billing Page : This page allows customers to edit their addresses, add/edit their cards on file, and view/download invoices and receipts for their bookings and gift card purchases.

Edit the Customer My Drive Page : If enabled, the customer My Drive page allows customers to view files uploaded to their drive and upload files to share with the merchant and staff.

Edit the Customer Gift Cards Page : This page displays all gift cards that have been sent and received by the customer.  Click here to learn how to edit the customer Gift Cards page.

Edit the Customer Notification Page : This page allows customers to enable or disable email and SMS notifications for their profile.

Edit the Customer Reauth Card Page : This page is displayed when the 3DS option is enabled on your account in store option settings and a card payment link is sent to the customer to reauthorize an existing card or add a new card as detailed in this article .

Edit the Customer Add Payment Page: This page is displayed whenever a customer adds a new card to the Your Info & Billing section as shown in this article .

Edit the Customer Invoice Page : This page displays the customer's invoice and an optional contract pop-up to collect and verify the customer's signature upon reviewing and paying the invoice.  This page is displayed when a customer is sent an invoice link as detailed in this article .

Edit the Customer Invoice Payment Page: This page is displayed when the customer clicks the Pay Invoice button at the bottom of their invoice.

Edit the Customer Invoice Thank You Page: This page is displayed once the customer has successfully paid their invoice on your website.



Add, deactivate, or delete a customer
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-deactivate-or-delete-a-customer

Add, deactivate, or delete a customer
Learn how to create, deactivate, and delete customer accounts.

Last updated on 17 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Add a new customer account
Ģ Deactivate and reactivate customer accounts
Ģ Delete customer accounts

New Customer Accounts
Admin and staff can add new customer accounts in two different ways.
871 Admin can manually add a customer account from the "Customers" section.
872 Admin can schedule a new service and the customer account will be generated automatically.

Manually Add a Customer

If you would like to create an account for your customer but are not ready to schedule a service, you can use the "Add Customer" option in the "Customers" section. Please go to: Customers > Add New

There is also a blue "Add New" button that is located at the top of the Customer's section. Both options lead to the same place.

Once you click the button, you will be redirected to a blank "Add Customer" page.

You must fill out at least a First Name, Last Name, and Email Address to save a new customer account. You can also include a Company Name, Address, Phone Number(s), and Gender of the customer.

There is also an "Add Private Note" box where you can add notes about the customer's account. These can only be seen by the admin and staff.

Towards the bottom of the screen, there is an option to "Send Invitation". This correlates with the "New Account" email/SMS templates located under: Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Customers > Account

Please be sure this template is toggled to "Enabled" under the Notifications section if you'd like to send a notification inviting your customer to create a password and log into their account.

If you don't want to send the "New Account" notification to your customer now, you can always uncheck this box and send it at a later time from the customer's profile.

Once you are done filling out the customer's basic information, click the blue "Add" button to generate the customer account.

You will be redirected to the customer's Dashboard. A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know the customer account has been saved.

Add a Customer by Booking a Service

As mentioned earlier, the other way admin and staff can create a new customer account is by saving a new booking.

The fasted way to create a new booking from the admin/staff dashboard is to click the blue "Add Booking" button at the top of the left side menu.

As you fill out the form, select "New Customer" under the "Customer Details" section. You will need to enter a First Name, Last Name, and Email Address for the booking to save.

Once you have finished filling out the booking form, click the green "Save Booking" button on the right side menu (or at the bottom of the page for mobile devices).

You will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page letting you know the booking has been saved. If you click the customer's name in the booking, you will be redirected to their new customer profile.

New Customer Notifications

There are email and SMS notification templates to alert customers when a new account has been created for them. This notification also includes a link to set up a password for the account.

To enable these notifications, please go to: Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS

Click on the "Customers" tab at the top of the page, then click anywhere in the "Account" section to expand it.

Next, check to see if the "New Account" template has been set to "Enabled".

If the notification is red and says "Disabled", click the toggle button to switch it to "Enabled".

Deactivate/Reactivate Customer Accounts
Deactivate a Customer Account

Customers can also request an account deactivation from their dashboard.

Admin and staff can deactivate a customer by going to: Customers > Customers

This will bring you to the active Customers section. Click on "Options", then "Deactivate" to the right of the customer you'd like to deactivate.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to deactivate this customer. You can also check the box next to "Exclude notification from being sent" if you do not want the customer to be notified that you are deactivating their account.

Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed with deactivating the customer's account.

Once completed, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the customer has been deactivated successfully.

Reactivate a Customer Account

If you'd ever like to reactivate a customer's account, go to: Customers > Deactivation Requests

Click on the "Deactivated Customers" tab at the top of the page to view a list of all deactivated customer accounts.

Once you locate the correct account, click on "Options", then "Re-Activate".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to reactivate this customer. You can also check the box next to "Exclude notification from being sent" if you do not want the customer to be notified that you are reactivating your account.

Once completed, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the customer has been reactivated successfully.

Deactivation/Reactivation Notifications

There are notification templates designed to alert customers if their account has been deactivated or reactivated.

To enable these notifications, please go to: Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS

Click on the "Customers" tab at the top of the page, then click anywhere in the "Account" section to expand it.

Next, check to see if the "Customer Activated" and "Customer Deactivated" templates have been set to "Enabled".

If the notifications are red and say "Disabled", click the toggle button to switch them to "Enabled".

Delete a Customer Account
To permanently delete a customer account, you must first deactivate it. Then, go to: Customers > Deactivation Requests

Click on the "Deactivated Customers" tab at the top of the page.

Once you've located the account you'd like to delete, click on "Options", and "Delete."

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you are ready to delete this customer. Once you click the blue "Yes" button, the account will be permanently deleted from the system and cannot be retrieved.

Once complete, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the customer has been deleted successfully.



Setting up receipt emails
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/receipts

Setting up receipt emails
Learn how to enable receipt emails to be generated and sent out to your customers after a service is completed.

Last updated on 08 Apr, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to send out receipts

Getting Started
Customers can receive a receipt email for their booking in several different ways:
873 Emailed automatically when the service is booked
874 Emailed manually by the admin
875 Downloaded manually by the customer

Before you can send out a receipt to a customer, you must make sure you have set up and verified your email notification settings. Click here to view a guide on how to set them up.

Enable Automatic Receipt Notifications
If you would like your customers to receive a copy of their receipt when they first schedule a booking, please go to: Settings > Notifications > Emails

Click on the "Customer" tab at the top of the page.

Click on the "New & Modified Booking" section to expand it.

There are two versions of the Receipt email, one for one-time, or "ot", customers, and the other for recurring, or "rec", customers. This allows you to customize your messages depending on whether the customer has a recurring frequency or not.

To enable each notification, click the red "Disabled" button to switch it to green "Enabled". A green system notification will appear in the top right concern of the page, letting you know the notification has been enabled successfully.

Now the customer will automatically receive an email with their receipt once the booking is saved into the system.

Manually Send a Receipt
Enable the Service Receipt Notification

You can also manually resend customers' receipts later if you made any changes to the booking after the booking was completed. To enable this option, please go to: Settings > Notifications > Emails

Click on the "Customer" tab at the top of the page.

Click on the "Booking Fee Charged & Refund" section to expand it.

Scroll down until you see the "Service Receipt" template. Click the red "Disabled" button to switch it to green "Enabled". A green system notification will appear in the top right concern of the page, letting you know the notification has been enabled successfully.

Customize the "Service Receipt" Template

If you would like to customize which information is included on your receipt, click the "Edit" button to the right of the "Service Receipt" template.

You can change the subject line for this email by clicking on the "Subject" box at the top of the page.

If you have created any master templates, you can select one from the "Master Template" drop-down menu and check the box next to "Preview with Master Template" to see what the email will look like to customers.

To make changes to the appearance of the receipt, scroll to the bottom section and use the content editing tools in the bottom box to modify the template.

The default template contains several short codes which are used to display the receipt for a specific booking. To see a list of all possible shortcodes available for the template, click the blue "View Short Codes" button at the top of the screen.

If you would like your receipt to contain specific fields instead of using the {{.BookingDetails}} shortcode, you can replace this with the codes you want to display.

Click here to learn more about how to use shortcodes to customer your email and SMS templates.

Resend a Receipt

To resend the customer's receipt, open the booking you would like to send a receipt for by clicking the pencil icon to edit it.

Scroll down and locate the pale blue "Resend Receipt" button on the left-side menu (or the bottom of the page, if you are on a mobile device or in a small browser window).

Once you click the "Resent Receipt" button, a pop-up window will appear. If you'd like, you can add a note to the receipt to cover any special reasons why the receipt is being updated or resent. Then, click the blue "Send" button".

A green-system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the notification has been sent successfully. A copy of the customer's up-to-date receipt has been sent out.



Multiple addresses and cards
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/multiple-addresses-and-cards

Multiple addresses and cards
Learn more about saving multiple addresses and cards in customers' profiles.

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to add multiple addresses to a customer's profile
Ģ How to add a credit/debit card for a specific location

Multiple Addresses
Whenever you schedule a booking for a customer, the address will be saved into their profile under the "Address" section. You can also manually add addresses to this section to help expedite the booking process.

To manually add an address to a customer's profile, go to: Customers > Customers

Search for the customer's name, email address, phone number, or address in the search bar or locate them in the list below.

Click on the customer's name to be redirected to their dashboard. Next, click the "Profile" tab at the top of the page.

Scroll down until you see the "Addresses" section. Click the blue "Add New" button to add a new address.

An "Address" pop-up window will appear. Type the address into the field(s) and check the box next to "Make Default" if you would like to set this as the customer's primary address.

Once you click the blue "Save" button, the address will be added to the customer's profile.

Once an address has been saved into a customer's profile, you can select it from the "Existing Address" section of the booking form.

If you use zip-code-based locations, the address will be automatically selected when you enter the zip code at the top of the form.

If you ever need to edit, delete, or switch the default, click on the three dots icon in the top right corner of the address box.

Multiple Cards
Whenever you schedule a booking for a customer, their credit or debit card will be saved into their profile under the "Billing Info" section. You can also manually add cards to this section to store them for future use.

To manually add a new card to a customer's profile, go to: Customers > Customers

Search for the customer's name, email address, phone number, or address in the search bar or locate them in the list below.

Click on the customer's name to be redirected to their dashboard. Next, click the "Profile" tab at the top of the page.

Scroll down until you see the "Billing Info" section. Click the blue "Add New" button to add a card on file.

An "Add Card" pop-up window will appear where you will enter the full card number, expiration date, and the 3 or 4-digit CVC (security code).

If you have multiple Stripe or Square accounts connected to your locations, you will see an additional option to select a location for the card.

You can pick "Default" to save the card for use in all locations, or pick a specific location from the drop-down menu. This feature allows you to save a card that can only be used for a specific location.

If the customer has pending upcoming bookings on their schedule, there will be a "Next" button. This displays a second pop-up with options to update pending or upcoming bookings with the new card.

For "Should we update all bookings with the new card?" select one of the options:
Ģ "All upcoming, excluding pending payments" will set the new card as the default for all upcoming bookings, including any pending services.
Ģ "All upcoming, including pending payments" will set the new card as the default for both pending and upcoming appointments.

For "Should we add the new card under bookings with cash/check payments?", select one of the following options:
Ģ Yes - Any bookings that have been saved with "Cash/Check" as the payment method will be updated with the new card information.
Ģ No - "Cash/Check" bookings will not be updated with the new card.

Finally, click the blue "Add Card" button to save the card into the profile.

Once a card has been saved into a customer's profile, you can select it from the "Existing Credit Card" section of the booking form.

If you have connected multiple Stripe or Square accounts for your locations, you can click on the location tabs under the "Billing Info" section to view the card(s) saved for that location.

Whenever you schedule a new booking for this location, the correct card will be linked to the booking.



Customer charges
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/customer-charges-refunds-and-fees

Customer charges
BookingKoala
Back To BookingKoala
Search
Open menu
Looking for help?
Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides
BookingKoala Help Center
Customers
Customer charges
Customers
Customer charges
Learn everything there is to know about charges, refunds, and the different types of fees that can be charged.
Last updated on
25 Nov, 2024
The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
How to get started with processing customer payments
Where to locate the "Pending Charges" section
How to manually charge bookings
Where to locate the "All Charges" section
Where to locate the "Declined" charge section
Where to locate the "Card Holds/Declined" section
Where to locate the "Invoices" section
Before You Begin
Accepted Forms of Payment
One of the great features of BookingKoala is that you can process customer charges directly from inside your dashboard.Ā Before you begin processing charges, you must first determine what kind of payment methods you would like to accept from customers.Ā Currently, BookingKoala has two options for charging customers:
credit/debit card
or
cash/check
.
To enable which payment methods you'd like to accept, go to:
Settings > General > Store Options > General
Click on the "
Store Info
" section to expand it.Ā Then, scroll down until you see the "
Accepted Forms of Payment
" section.
Check the box(es) next to at least one of these options so customers have a way to check out, then click the blue "
Save
" button at the bottom of the page.
Payment Collection
If you would like to charge customers by
credit/debit card
, you will need to connect a payment processor like
Stripe
,
Papal
,
Square, or Authorize.net
to safely collect and store card information.
Click here
to learn more about payment processors and see guides on how to connect one to your store.
If you allow customers to pay with "
Cash/Check
", you will need to collect the payment using a method outside of BookingKoala.
Please note, even if you have
disabled
the "
Cash/Check
" option for customers, staff and admin will still be able to use it as an option to save quotes or booking drafts.
Payment Settings
Next, you'll want to set up your
Payment Settings
section. This section goes covers rules for how unassigned bookings are charged, setting up automatic charging, and how the system will handle pre-charges and refunds.
Click here
to view a step-by-step guide to each setting in this section.
If you use Stripe, Square, or Authorize.net as your payment processor you can set up the
charge descriptions
for all credit and debit card transactions.Ā Customers will see these descriptions on their bank statements. To customize the descriptions, please go to:
Settings > General > Store Options > Admin
Scroll down to the "
Payment Descriptions
" section.Ā Enter your descriptions into the boxes below and then click the "
Save
" button to update your settings.
The "
Card Hold Description
" is used whenever a card hold has been placed on a customer's transaction.
The "
Charge Booking Description
" is used to show that the charge has been finalized.
Please note
: Payment gateways do not allow description updates. As a result, a card-hold description will become permanent upon successfully charging the customer. If a card is not "on hold" prior to charging, the charge booking description will be used instead of the card hold description.
Booking Form
Finally, check that you have finalized your pricing in your
booking form
. This will ensure that customers are being charged the correct rates for your services.Ā The following form sections contain options to assign prices and fees to your services:
Locations (in the form of
Service Fees
)
Service Categories
Pricing Parameters
(used in
Form
1
)
Pricing Parameters
(used in
Form
4
)
Packages
(used in
Form 2
)
Items
(used in
Form
2
and
Form
3
)
Add-Ons
(used in
Form
2
)
Add-Ons
(used in
Form 3
)
Extras
Custom Sections
Once your form is set up, you can begin booking and charging customers.
Pending Charges
BookingKoala allows you to charge customers
manually,
automatically,
or a combination of
both
.Ā If you'd like to learn how to set up some or all charges to be processed automatically,
click here
.
To begin processing chargesĀ manually, go to:
Bookings > Booking Charges
You will land on the "
Pending Charges
" tab.
All bookings that have been completed with be located in this section. A booking is considered "
complete
" once the job length has passed in the system.
For example, if you schedule a 3-hour job at 8:00 AM, the system will consider the job finished at 11:01 AM.
You can use the
filters
at the top of the page to view pending charges for specific
frequencies
,
industries
, and
locations
.
You can select the
date(s)
you'd like to view pending charges for and use the
search bar
to look up a customer's charge by
name
,
email address
,
phone number
,
booking id
, or
address
.
Charging Fixed-Rate Bookings
If your bookings are
fixed rates
, that is, the price does not depend on how long the job takes, they will be ready to charge as soon as they are completed in the system.Ā These pending charges will haveĀa
checkbox
all the way to the left.
Check the topmost
checkbox
in the menu, just to the left of "
Service Date
", to
select all
confirmed
pending charges.
Then, click the blue "
Charge Selected
" button at the top left side of the screen to charge all of the bookings you have selected.
Give the system a moment to process, especially if you are bulk charging more than a few appointments.Ā Once it is finished, you will see a green system notification in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know that the charges have been processed.
You can also charge a single booking by clicking on the "
Charge
" buttonĀto the left of the customer's price under the "
Actions
" column.
Charging Hourly Bookings
If your bookings are
hourly
, or the price depends on the total length of time it takes to complete the job, there is an additional step to take in order to process payments. As you can see, unconfirmed hourly bookingsĀwill be missing a checkbox.
This step ensures that you do not accidentally charge a customer for the wrong amount of time, as the exact job length often varies from the estimate provided.
To confirm the charge, click on the
Charge
buttonĀand a pop-up window will appear. Enter the
hours
and
minutes
for the booking into the boxes, and then click the blue "
Save &ĀCharge
" button.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know the booking has been updated and charged successfully.
If your providers use the
GPS clock in/outĀfeature
to log their booking hours, you have an additional option to push your booking time log information into the pending charged section. To do this, please go to:
Settings > General > Store Options > Provider > GPS & Time Logs
Scroll down until you see the question, "
Would you like time adjustments in the time logs to be updated on the booking as well?
" and select "
Yes
". Then click the blue "
Save
" button at the bottom of the page to update your settings.
Click here
to learn more about booking time logs including how to create, edit, and approve them.
Using the Add Charge Option
Click here
to learn how to charge one or more bookings or add an extra charge outside of a booking.
Void a Charge
Click here
to learn how to void a charge from the "Pending Charges" section.
All Charges
If you have processed a charge successfully, it will end up in the "
All Charges
" tab at the top of the page. This section contains additional options for your completed transactions.
There are three subcategories related to the All Charges tab:
Bookings
,
Separate
, and
Invoices
.
The
Bookings
charges section shows all charges that are related to bookings in the system.
The
Separate
charges section shows all charges that were made outside of booking or invoice charges.
The
Invoices
section shows all charges that were collected via invoice.
Each section also contains
filters
and
search options
so you can look up a specific charge by
frequency
,
industry
,
location
,
date
,
name
,
email address
,
phone number
, or
booking ID
.
Below, you will see a list of successful charges with the most recent charge located at the top of the list.
There will be green labels to give you additional insight into the transaction, such as if it was paid for with a credit card, or "
CC
", if it was
voided
, or if it was paid in
cash/check
.
Refund a Charge
Click here
to learn how to process full or partial refunds.
Charge an Additional Fee
Click here
to learn how to charge an additional fee after you have already charged a customer.
Add a Tip After Charging a Customer
Click here
to learn how to add a tip for a provider if you have already charged the customer.
Declined Charges
If you try to process a charge but the funds are not captured, that charge will be automatically moved to the "
Declined
" section.
This section will only display if you have any declined charges. If you do not, you will only see tabs for
Pending
,
All Charges
, and
Card Hold(s)/Declined
.
This section also contains
filters
and
search options
so you can look up a specific charge by
frequency
,
industry
,
location
,
date
,
name
,
email address
,
phone number
, or
booking ID
.
Below, you will see a list of declined charges.
To try recharging a card on the declined list, click the "
$
" icon located under the "
Actions
" column.
If the charge is successful, a green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know the charge has been processed. If not, you will see a red "
Declined
" message letting you know the charge was still unsuccessful.
Retry a Declined Charge
Click here
to learn how to switch forms of payment on your booking to retry a declined charge.
Card Holds/Declined
If you have enabled
credit card preauthorization
, or "
card holds
", you can capture your customers' funds before you process their payment.Ā Card holds ensure that the amount you are going to charge is held in reserve, so there is no chance that the payment will decline.
Card holds can be placed automatically based on the settings you have selected under the
Customer Store Options
section. There are options to control whether the hold is placed the day of the service at a specific time or a number of days before the service is set to take place. You can also decide whether you would like card holds to be placed on bookings that are charged manually, automatically, or both.Ā In addition to this, you can place holds for new bookings, rescheduled bookings, or both.
Click here
to learn how to enable credit card holds and set up your settings.
Once you've enabled card preauthorization, you can verify a hold was successful by looking for a little red or green
credit card icon
under the "
Actions
" column on any of the booking pages like "
Today's Bookings
", "
Upcoming Bookings
", and "
Unassigned Bookings
".
When the icon is
green
, the booking total has been held successfully.
When the icon is
red
, the hold has
declined
so funds have not been reserved.
There will also be a "
Card Holds/Declined
" tab under your
Booking Charges
section where you can manage your card holds. To view this, go to:
Bookings > Booking Charges > Card Holds/Declined
This section also contains
filters
and
search options
so you can look up a specific charge by
frequency
,
industry
,
location
,
date
,
name
,
email address
,
phone number
, or
booking ID
.
Under this section, you will see a list of all bookings set to have card holds. If a card has been held successfully, it will be listed under the "
Card Holds
" section.
Release a Card Hold
Click here
to learn how to release a credit card hold.
Manually Place a Card Hold
Click here
to learn how to manually place a credit card on hold.
Invoices
The final tab under the Customer Charges section in the
Invoices
section.ĀThe
Invoice Module
isĀdesigned to help you send invoices to customers, track invoice status, and charge invoice payments.Ā An
invoice
is a bill that lists the services provided to the customer with a statement of the total payment due. Invoices can be created for new or existing customers, for bookings, or custom invoices.
Click here
for a general overview of how to use the invoice module.
Create a New Invoice
Click here
to learn how to create an invoice for a new or existing customer.
Charge or Change the Status of an Invoice
Click here
to learn how to charge an invoice or change the invoice status to paid, void, or uncollectible.
Related Articles
Retry a declined charge
Learn how to switch payment methods in a booking to try and capture a declined charge.
How to set up automatic credit card holds/preauthorizations
Learn how to set up card preauthorizations, or card "holds", to secure payments made with credit cards.
Charge a booking or separate fee using the add charge option
Learn how to mass charge bookings or how to charge a separate fee outside of the booking charge.
Void a charge
Learn how to void a customer's charge in the pending charges section.
Charge an additional fee
Learn how to charge an extra fee after you have processed your customer's initial charge.
Add a late tip
Learn how to add a tip for a provider after charging the customer's booking.
Refund a charge
Learn how to fully or partially refund a customer's charge in the "All Charges" section.
How to set up payments and automatic charges
Learn how to set up your customer payments, including enabling automatic charges, pre-charges, and refunded payment rules.
Did you find this article helpful?
Yes
No
Previous
Void a charge
Next



Void a charge
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/void-a-charge

Void a charge
Learn how to void a customer's charge in the pending charges section.

Last updated on 22 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to void a customer's charge

Void a Charge
To void a charge, go to:

Bookings > Booking Charges > Pending

Locate the charge you would like to void in the list below. Then, click the "Void payment" option located under the "Actions" column on the far right.

A "Void Payment" pop-up window will appear where you can provide a reason for voiding the charge. This will only be seen by the admin. Then, click the blue "Save" button to complete voiding the charge.

A green system notification will appear in the top left corner, letting you know the booking payment has been voided successfully.



Refund a charge
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/refund-a-charge

Refund a charge
Learn how to fully or partially refund a customer's charge in the "All Charges" section.

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to refund a charge

Refund a Charge
If you need to process a refund for a customer, go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges

Locate the charge you would like to process a refund for in the list below. Then, click the "Refund Charge" button located under the "Actions" column on the far right.

A "Refund Payment" pop-up window will appear. Select either "Full" or "Partial" for the type of refund you'd like to process. If you select "Partial", enter the amount including tax that you would like to refund. The amount you enter here will automatically include the taxes if there are any. For example, if you refund $50 out of $100, some will be refunded out of the amount, and a portion will be refunded out of the taxes totaling $50.

Next, provide a reason for a refund in the text box at the bottom. If you want to exclude a notification from being sent to the customer about the refund, check the box next to "Exclude notification from being sent". Then, click the blue "Refund" button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner, letting you know the amount has been refunded successfully. If you scroll back down to the booking, you will now see a View Refunded Details button located under the "Actions" column. If you hover your cursor over this button, it will display the refund details and reason.

Please note: Currently, only one refund can be processed per transaction in BookingKoala. If you need to process a second refund on the same transaction, please perform the refund directly in your payment processor and then contact us at support@bookingkoala.com so we can update your system to reflect the correct refund amount in your records.



Charge an additional fee
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/charge-a-customer-an-additional-fee

Charge an additional fee
Learn how to charge an extra fee after you have processed your customer's initial charge.

Last updated on 22 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to process an additional fee

Charge an Additional Fee
If you want to charge a customer an additional fee after already having processed their charge, please go to:

Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges

Locate the charge you would like to add another fee to in the list below. Then, click the " Additional Charge " icon located under the " Actions " column on the far right.

A " Charge Extra " pop-up window will appear. Enter the amount you'd like to charge in the box at the top. Then, provide a " reason for extra charge " in the text box at the bottom.

Next, select which form of payment you'd like to charge. You can select an existing credit card , add a new credit card , or select cash/check for the transaction.

If you want to exclude a notification from being sent to the customer about the additional fee, check the box next to " Exclude notification from being sent ". Then, click the blue " Charge Now " button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner, letting you know the amount has been charged successfully.



Add a late tip
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-tip-after-charging-a-customer

Add a late tip
Learn how to add a tip for a provider after charging the customer's booking.

Last updated on 22 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to charge a customer for a tip after processing their booking payment

Add a Tip After Charging a Customer
If you have already processed a customer's booking charge, but they've reached out and let you know they would like for you to add a tip, you can easily do that from the "All Charges" section. First, go to:

Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges

Locate the charge you would like to add a tip for in the list below. Then, click the down arrow icon located under the "Actions" column on the far right and select "Give Tip".

A "Tip" pop-up window will appear. Enter the tip amount you'd like to charge in the box at the top.

Next, select which form of payment you'd like to charge. You can select an existing credit card, add a new credit card, or select cash/check for the transaction.

If you want to exclude a notification from being sent to the customer about the additional fee, check the box next to "Exclude notification from being sent". Then, click the blue "Submit" button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner, letting you know the tip has been charged successfully. If you scroll back down to the booking, you will see a View Logs button. If you click this button, it will display the newly added tip amount as well as any other additional charge logs.



Manually place a credit card hold/preauthorization
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/manually-place-a-credit-card-hold-preauthorization

Manually place a credit card hold/preauthorization
Learn how to manually reserve a customer's funds using a credit card hold/preauthorization.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to manually place a customer's credit or debit card "on hold" for their booking total

Manually Preauthorize a Credit Card
If a credit card preauthorization has failed, you will notice that it will have a red credit card icon listed under the "Actions" column when viewing bookings under the "Today's Bookings", "Upcoming Bookings", and "Unassigned Bookings" sections in list view.

To retry the card preauthorization, click the credit card icon and a pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you would like to place a hold for the booking amount. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

If viewing bookings in the calendar view, click on the booking in question and select the red Place Hold button on the right side menu at appears.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you would like to place a hold for the booking amount. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

If successful, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page letting you know the hold has been placed.

If not successful, you will see a red error message letting you know that the card was declined.

Manage Declined Card Holds
To view and manage your declined card holds, please go to:

Bookings > Payments > Card Hold(s)/Declined

Then, click the "Declined Cards(s)" tab at the top of the page.

If you would like to try another card, click on the pencil icon under the "Actions" column to open the booking.

Scroll down to the "Payment Information" section. Click on the box beneath "Your saved cards" to view if any other cards have been added to the customer's billing section.

If so, select the new card, then click the blue "Update" button just below this section. If the card preauthorization is successful, you will see a green system notification letting you know the booking has been updated successfully and the booking will be moved to the "Card Hold(s)" section.

If not, the booking will remain in the "Declined card(s)" list under the "Card Hold(s)/Declined" section. You can continue to try cards or contact the client to ask if they have another card to use on file in order to place your hold.



Release a credit card hold/preauthorization
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/release-a-credit-card-hold-preauthorization

Release a credit card hold/preauthorization
Learn how to release a customer's funds from a credit card hold/preauthorization.

Last updated on 04 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to release a credit or debit card preauthorization or "hold"

Release a Credit Card Hold
To release the funds that have been put on reserve by a credit card preauthorization, or "card hold", please go to:

Bookings > Booking Payments > Card Hold(s)/Declined

You will be redirected to the "Card Holds" tab by default. You can use the filters or search bar to locate the customer's hold or scroll down until you locate the transaction. Then, click the red "Release" button below the other action icons.

A pop-up window will ask if you want to release the hold. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know the card preauthorization has been released successfully and the customer's name will be removed from the "Card Hold" list.



Retry a declined charge
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/retry-a-declined-charge

Retry a declined charge
Learn how to switch payment methods in a booking to try and capture a declined charge.

Last updated on 14 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to retry a declined charge
Ģ How to switch payment methods for a booking
Ģ How to prevent declined cards

Retrying Declined Charges
If you tried to process a charge but the funds were not captured, the charge will be automatically moved to the "Declined" section.

To view this section, go to: Bookings > Booking Charges

Then, click on the "Declined" tab at the top of the page.

This section will only display if you have any declined charges. If you do not, you will only see tabs for Pending, All Charges, and Card Hold(s)/Declined.

This section contains filters and search options so you can look up a specific charge by frequency, industry, location, date, name, email address, phone number, or booking ID.

Below, you will see a list of declined charges.

To try recharging a card on the declined list, click the "$" icon located under the "Actions" column.

If the charge is successful, a green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know the charge has been processed. You will then be able to view the charge under the "All Charges" tab.

If it still did not process, you will see a red "Declined" message letting you know the charge was unsuccessful. If the charge was declined again, it will remain in the "Declined" section until the funds have been collected or a new card has been added to the customer's account.

Switching Payment Methods
The next step in retrying a declined card is to check if the customer has any other payment methods on file in the booking. To check this, click on the pencil icon under the "Actions" column to open the booking.

Scroll down to the "Payment Information" section. Click on the box beneath "Your saved cards" to view if any other cards have been added to the customer's billing section.

If so, select the new card, then click the blue "Update" button just below this section. A green system notification will let you know that the booking details have been updated.

Next, go back to: Bookings > Booking Charges

The booking will now appear under the "Pending Charges" tab.

You can now attempt to charge the card again by either selecting the check box to the left of the booking and then clicking the blue "Charge Selected" button, or clicking the "$" icon under the "Actions" column.

Repeat this process until you are able to capture the charge.

Prevent Declined Charges
The best way to prevent credit and debit card charges from being declined is to enable card preauthorizations, or credit card holds, to reserve the funds prior to charging.

Click here to learn how to enable automatic card holds so you do not have to worry about tracking down funds from your customers who use credit cards.



How customers can add tips and parking fees for providers
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-customers-can-add-tips-and-parking-fees-for-providers

How customers can add tips and parking fees for providers
The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How a customer can add a tip to their booking

Before You Begin
In order for customers to leave tips or pay parking expenses for your providers, you will need to enable these for your booking form.
Click here to learn how to set up tips and parking fees, including how to enable automatic tip notifications.

How Customers Can Add a Tip
Customers can add a tip through the BookingKoala in several different ways.

876 If you have enabled the tip or parking section to display on the customer front-end, this will allow new customers to add a tip when they are filling out the booking form for the first time.
877 If you have enabled the tip or parking section to display on the customer back-end, this will allow existing customers to add a tip when creating or editing an upcoming booking from their customer dashboard.
878 If you have enabled automatic tip notifications, customers can click on the "Go to Dashboard" link to log in and add a tip under the "Past Appointments" section.



How customers can view, print, and download service receipts
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-customers-can-view-print-download-invoices

How customers can view, print, and download service receipts
Learn where your customers can locate service receipts in the "Invoices" section in their dashboard.

Last updated on 08 Apr, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How customers can view, print, and download their service receipts/invoices

View/Download a Receipt for Customers
Customers can view and download receipts for their past appointments at any time by logging into their customer dashboard.

Once they are logged in, they can click on their name to review the menu drop-down and then select "Your Info & Billing".

Scroll down past the Billing section to view the Invoices section.

Each booking will have a box with options to Print, View, or Download the service invoice.



Referral credits
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/referrals

Referral credits
Learn about customer referral credits and how to set them up.

Last updated on 28 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:

Ģ Locate the referral credits section
Ģ Learn which APIs you can set up for referral link sharing
Ģ Set up your referral amounts

What are referrals?
Bookingkoala contains a referral program for your customers to refer friends and family to use your services. Each of your customers will receive a unique booking link that they can share to receive referral credits .

You can set the number of referral credits customers will receive for each share. You can even decide if you'd like the referred party to receive credits as well. Credits will only be awarded once both parties have completed one booking in the system.  A service is considered "complete" once the booking time has passed, or if the provider has clocked out of the job.

The referrals section is only visible to existing customers when they are logged into their accounts.

On the backend, you can go to a specific customer's dashboard and click on the " Referrals " tab at the top of the page.

From here, you are able to view their balance , including pending credits and total credits earned.

You have the ability to override , remove , or give additional referral credits by entering a new total into the box below. Click the blue " Save " button to update the balance.

Below this section, you can view a list of all customers who have been referred by this customer.

Under the " Status " column, you can see the status of the referral.  Once the customer has booked, it will say " Booked " instead.

You can also connect API keys for Facebook and Google so they can instantly share their unique link.

If you have already connected your API keys to allow your customers to sign in automatically , your customers will be ready to use these features to send their referral links as well.

Click here to view our guide on how to activate and connect your API for Facebook.

Click here to view our guide on how to activate and connect your API for Google.

For questions or issues with setting up your API, please contact our support team at support@bookingkoala.com.

Set Up The Referral Amounts
To set the number of credits you'd like to award for each referral, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Admin tab.

Scroll down until you see the " Referrals " section.

Enter the number of credits given to the person being referred into the first box.

Enter the number of credits given to the person referring someone into the second box.

Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of this section to update your gift card and referral settings.

Edit the Earn Credits Page
To edit the page your customers see when they manage their referrals, you must access the website & theme builder.  Please go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Customize Theme

Page: Home > Earn Credits

Like other pages on your BookingKoala website, this page uses your default header and footer design unless you have implemented something different.

To change the background of the main referral section, click anywhere on the background image and select the Edit button that appears at the top left corner.

Then, click " Replace " over the preview image.  You can upload a new file or choose one from your gallery to upload.  Click the blue Select button and the background image will be updated.

It is possible to edit most of the text on this page by clicking on the text and selecting the Edit button that appears in the top left corner of that section.

The resulting pop-up has a Text Settings section to edit the text and a Style Settings section to change the color of the font.

Some elements can be hidden if you do not plan on using them.

The background color for the segment below is also via the Edit button that appears when you click anywhere on the background.

The " Use My Credits " button can be modified as well.



Block a customer from booking or logging in
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/block-a-customer-from-booking

Title: Block a customer from booking or logging in

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to block a customer from booking
Ģ How to block a customer from logging in

Restricting Customer Access
There are a few different ways you can restrict customers' access to their accounts without deactivating or deleting them.

Ģ The "Block Access" button allows you to block the customer from logging into their account. If the customer tries to log in, they will see a message letting them know they are unable to log in at this time.
Ģ The "Block From Booking" button allows customers to access their accounts but blocks them from making any new bookings. If a customer attempts to create a new booking, they will not be able to see any availability (regardless of whether you have availability for that booking or not). Only admin and staff can create new bookings for the customer when the block is in place.

Navigation Path:
To block a customer from booking or logging in, first go to:
Customers > Customers

Search for the customer's name, email address, phone number, or address in the search bar or locate them in the list below.
Click on the customer's name to be redirected to their dashboard.

The yellow "Block Access" button and the red "Block from Booking" button will be located to the right (or just beneath) the customer's contact information.
You can also find these buttons under the "Profile" tab beneath the "Notes" box.

Block Access
If you click the "Block Access" button, a pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to block the customer from logging in. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner confirming that access has been blocked for this customer.
If the customer attempts to log in, they will see a custom block message in a red box at the top of the page.
(Note: You can set up the message the customer will see when they are blocked or deactivated by clicking the link to the Access Settings section under the Store Options > General tab).

To unblock a customer from logging in, simply go back to their profile or dashboard and click the orange "Enable Access" button.
A pop-up will appear asking if you are sure you want to enable logging in for this customer account. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.
The customer will now be able to log in without restriction.

Block From Booking
If you click the "Block From Booking" button, a pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to block the customer from scheduling new services. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner confirming that new bookings have been blocked for this customer.
If the customer attempts to schedule a new booking, they will not be able to view or select any of your booking spots regardless of provider availability.

To remove the block, simply go back to their profile or dashboard and click the blue "Unblock From Booking" button.
A pop-up will appear asking if you are sure you want to enable booking for this customer account. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.
The customer will now be able to view and select booking spots and proceed with scheduling a new service.



Customer deactivation requests
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/deactivation-requests

Customer deactivation requests
Learn more about how customer deactivation requests work, including where to enable notifications and process the request.

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How customers submit an account deactivation request
Ģ Where to process customer deactivation requests
Ģ How to enable notifications for deactivation requests

Customer Account Deactivation Requests
If a customer is no longer interested in keeping an account with your business, they can submit a deactivation request from their dashboard.

After logging into their dashboard, customers can click on their first name in the header section to view the drop-down menu. From here, they would select " Deactivate Account "

A pop-up will appear, asking why they are deactivating their account.  Customers can add feedback or comments to their request if desired, and then click the red " Deactivate " button.

Once the request has been submitted, the customer will see a green system notification at the top of the page letting them know the request has been submitted successfully.

Customers will still be able to access their account, book services, etc. until the admin or staff approves their request.

Processing Customer Deactivation Requests
Whenever customers submit a deactivation request, staff and admin will be able to view them under:

Customers > Deactivation Requests

You will be redirected to the " Deactivation Requests " page by default.  Any new requests will be listed in the section below.

To approve the request, click on " Options ", then " Approve ".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to deactivate the account. Once deactivated, the customer will no longer be able to use this email address to log in, view past bookings, or schedule new ones.

You also have an option to exclude notifications from being sent to the customer confirming the account deactivation.  If you are ready to process, click the blue " Yes " button.

Once the deactivation is complete, a green system notification will let you know and you will be redirected to the " Deactivated Customers " tab.

If you do not want to approve the request, you can click " Options ", then " Discard " to get rid of the request.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to decline the deactivation request. Customers are not notified if their deactivation request is denied.  Click " Yes " to proceed.

A green system notification will let you know the request has been declined. You will be directed back to the " Deactivation Requests " tab which will now be empty.

Deactivation Request Notifications
There are three ways to notify the admin and staff of a new customer deactivation request:

879 Email notification
880 SMS notification
881 System Alert

Email Notification
To enable the " Account Deactivation Request " email notification, you must first check that you have set up and verified your sender email address. Click here to learn how to set up email notifications for the admin, staff, customers, and providers.

Then, please go to:

Settings > Notifications > Emails

Expand the " Account " section and check to see if the notification is set to " Enabled ".

If the notification is red and says " Disabled ", click the button to switch it to " Enabled ". A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to enable this notification. Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.

Your admin email address will now receive email notifications whenever a customer requests to deactivate their account.

SMS Notification
To enable the " Account Deactivation Request " SMS notification, you must first check that you have set up and connected your Twilio account. Click here to learn how to set up SMS notifications for the admin, staff, customers, and providers.

Then, please go to:

Settings > Notifications > SMS

Expand the " Account " section and check to see if the notification is set to " Enabled ".

If the notification is red and says " Disabled ", click the button to switch it to " Enabled ". A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to enable this notification. Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.

Your Twilio number will now receive SMS notifications whenever a customer requests to deactivate their account.

System Alert
In addition to SMS and email templates, there is also a system alert for customer deactivation requests. Click here to learn more about how system alerts display in your account.

To enable the system alert, please go to:

Settings > Notifications > System Alerts

Expand the " Account " section and check to see if the alert is set to " Enabled ".

If the alert is red and says " Disabled ", click the button to switch it to " Enabled ". A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to enable this alert. Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.

Your admin and staff dashboard(s) will now display this system alert whenever a customer requests to deactivate their account.



How to export customer data
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-export-customer-data

How to export customer data
Learn how to export customer information into a .CSV file.

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Locate the customer export tool
Ģ Customize and download a .CSV file with your customer data

Exporting Your Customers
The "Customers" section in your BookingKoala dashboard is one of several areas that contain an export tool. You may want to download a file of your customers for several different reasons:
Ģ Transfer customers to another business account
Ģ Analyze your business's demographics
Ģ Share customer data with your marketer

Whatever the case may be, you can easily export your customers by going to:

Customers > Customers

Next, click the green "Export" button on the top right corner of the page.

You will be redirected to the "Export Customer(s)" page. There are several different options to customize which customer data will be exported.

Under "Date Created", you can select "All Time" to export all customers in the system, or "Custom Period" to select a date range for when the account was created.

Under "Status", you can select to download:
Ģ "All Customers", or both active and deactivated customer accounts.
Ģ "Active Customers", or customers that have an active account in your system.
Ģ "Inactive Customers", or customer accounts that have been deactivated.

If you would like to filter your customers based on the tags saved on their profile, click on the box beneath "Tags (optional)". You can type in the tag name or select it from the dropdown menu.

Under "Field(s)", you can check the box next to "Select All" to export all customer fields, or check the boxes next to the fields you'd like to be included.

Once you have selected your preferences, click the blue ōExportö button at the bottom left corner of the page.

You will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page and your device will automatically download the information as a .CSV file. You have successfully exported your customers!



Customer dashboard explained
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/customer-dashboard-explained

Customer dashboard explained
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/customer-dashboard-explained

Last updated on 04 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where customers can log in
Ģ How customers can edit or reschedule
Ģ How customers can cancel or resume canceled bookings
Ģ How customers can duplicate or add a new booking
Ģ How to rate services from the customer dashboard
Ģ How to purchase a gift card or earn referral credits
Ģ How customers can manage their profile and notifications
Ģ How customers can add a new payment method
Ģ How to use the My Drive feature

The Customer Dashboard
The customer dashboard is a great resource that allows your clients to manage their bookings, provide feedback, earn referral credits, and more. Use of the customer dashboard is completely optional and is not required in order to complete the booking process. However, a customer dashboard will be created whenever a customer account is generated for your store.

Customer accounts are generated whenever the admin or customer schedules a booking for the first time, or by entering an email address and password via the sign-up page on your website.

Once generated, customers can log in right away to manage their bookings.

It's important to note that access to the features within the customer dashboard can be restricted or even disabled entirely depending on the store's settings. Admin can learn more about these settings by going through the "General" store options and "Customer" store options sections.

Log In
There are a few different ways customers can log into their dashboard.

882 Login via the BookingKoala Subdomain
Customers can log into their account by going to the login page at the URL that was created for you when you signed up for your account.
For example, if you entered "Demo2" as your store name when you first created your account, your BookingKoala URL would be:https://demo2.bookingkoala.comNext, customers can click the "Login/Signup" link at the top of the header to navigate to the Login page.
Customers will enter their email address and password under the "Sign In Through Your Email" section. Finally, they will click the "Sign In" button to navigate to their dashboard.
Your site's login URL will also take users directly to the login/sign-up page (unless you have renamed this subdomain). For example:https://demo2.bookingkoala.com/login
883 Sign In With Facebook or Google
If your business has enabled sign-in/sign-up with Facebook or Google, customers can also log in by clicking either of these buttons on the login page.
After clicking the button, a pop-up window will allow users to enter login information or sign in to their Facebook or Google accounts. After connecting the account, the "enter" key or click "Log In" to access the customer dashboard.
It is important to note that customers who have logged in using either option will need to use the same method every time to view their customer dashboard.
884 Login Via the Login Form on Your Custom Domain
If your business uses a custom domain, such as "demo2llc.com", customers can access their dashboard via the login form. Like the booking form, the "login form" is an iframe that can be embedded into any page on your website.
Once customers visit your business' domain, they can look for a link that directs them to the login page. From here, they can use the "Sign In Through Your Email" and "Sign In With Facebook/Google" options, if enabled.

Edit or Reschedule Bookings
If permitted by your store settings, customers can edit and reschedule bookings through their dashboard. This can be done directly from the main dashboard section.
If not already on this page by default, customers can select the drop-down menu titled with their first name and click on "Dashboard".
Under the "Appointments" tab, click on the blue "Edit/Reschedule" button.
From here, the customer can make changes, including selecting a new date and time. Once finished, they can select the blue "Save Changes" button.

Cancel, Postpone, or Resume Canceled Bookings
If allowed, customers can cancel and resume canceled bookings through their dashboard. This can also be done from the main dashboard section.
To visit the main dashboard, customers can select the drop-down menu and click on "Dashboard".
Under the "Appointments" tab, click the red "Cancel Booking" button.
A pop-up window will appear with the option to cancel or postpone the service.
If canceling a recurring service, customers can decide if they want to cancel just one or all appointments.
If postponing a service, the customer can select a date in the future when the service will resume.
To resume a canceled booking, go to the "Canceled Appointments" tab and click on the "Resume Booking".
From here, the customer can select a new date and time and then click the green "Resume" button on the right side of the page.

Book Again or Add a New Booking
Customers can easily book more services directly from their main dashboard. If not already on that page, they can click the main menu and select "Dashboard".
Just below the customer details section, customers can click the "Add New Booking" button to schedule new services.
Customers can also duplicate previous appointments and book them for a future date. To do this, they can click on the "Previous Appointments" tab and then click the "Book Again" button below the booking they want to copy.
From here, they will be directed to the booking form where they can review the details and select a new date and time.

Rate Bookings
Once a service has been completed, customers can leave ratings and comments from their dashboard. To leave a rating, customers will go to their main dashboard.
Next, they can click on the "Previous Appointments" tab and look for grey stars below the booking summary.
To leave a review, click the number of stars (half stars can be used) and a pop-up with a comment box will appear. Once finished leaving feedback, click the "Rate Now" button and the review will be saved for that service.

Add a Tip
Customers can add a tip or pay for a provider's parking fees through the customer dashboard. If not already on that page, they can click the main menu and select "Dashboard".
Under the "Appointments" tab, click "Edit/Reschedule" to open the booking details page.
Scroll down to the Tip and/or Parking section to select an option. They can select a pre-set amount or click the "Other" button to enter a custom percentage or flat amount.
To update the booking, they will click the "Save Changes" button on the right side of the page.
Customers can also add tips to past services. Once they click on the "Previous Appointments" tab, they can select the click the green "Add Tip" button.

View and Download Invoices
Customers can view and download invoices for each service by clicking on the main menu and selecting "Your Info & Billing".
They will scroll down past the Billing section to view the Invoices section. Each booking will have a box with options to print, view, or download the service invoice.
Invoices can also be viewed by going to the "Previous Appointments" tab in the main dashboard and clicking "View Details".
There will be an orange "Download Invoice" button on the ride side of the page below the booking summary.

Purchase a Gift Card
Customers can purchase and send out a gift card from their dashboard. To do this, they will click on the "Gift Cards" link at the top of the page and then select the "Send Gift Card" button.
This will bring them to the gift card page. From here, they can fill out the form, add a message, and select when the gift card will be sent out. The customer can pay for the card using whichever payment method is on file or use a new card.
Customers can also track gift cards that have been sent out or received from the gift card page.

Earn Referral Credits
If enabled, customers can earn credits towards your service from the "Earn Credits" section of their dashboard. Credits will only be awarded once both parties have completed one booking in the system.
On the backend, you can go to a specific customer's dashboard and click on the "Referrals" tab at the top of the page.
From here, they can invite friends and family to use your business by using any of the invitation options the business owner has unable. Invitations can be sent to emails, phone numbers, or shared on Facebook, Twitter, or by using the link icon.
Below this section, customers can track the referral they've sent out to see if they've booked or are pending.

Update Profile Info and Notifications
Customers can use their dashboard to manage their notifications and update their contact information. To do this, they will click on the main drop-down menu and select "Your Info & Billing".
Once on the page, the customer can click the "Edit Personal Details" button to make changes to their name, profile pictures, email address, phone address, or add contact information for a second person. Once they are finished, clicking the "Update Profile" button will save the changes.
Customers can also manage their email and SMS notifications by clicking on "Notifications" under the main menu.
From here, they can click the toggle button next to each notification to enable or disable it.

Add or Delete a Debit/Credit
Customers can also add or delete a payment method from the billing information section of their dashboard. They can click on the main menu and select "Your Info & Billing".
Once they are on the page, they can scroll down to the "Billing" to view whatever cards are on file.
To add a new card, they will click the "Add New Card" button in this section. If your business used separate accounts for each location, the customer will select their location and then enter the card information. Finally, they can click the "Add Card" button to complete the process.
Customers can set their default payment method by clicking the "wheel" icon in the top right corner of the card and selecting "Make Default".
Cards can be deleted by clicking the wheel icon and selecting "Delete".

Use the My Drive
Admin can enable the "My Drive" feature in the customer profile. This allows admin and staff to upload files and documents for the customer to view.
From their dashboard, customers can select the "My Drive" option from the main menu to download the files that have been uploaded.
If enabled, customers are also allowed to upload files of their own to share with the admin and staff. This can be done by selecting the "My Drive" option from the main menu and clicking the "Browse" button to select a file. There is an option to add a note to the file as well.
Once a file has been selected, the customer can click the "Save" button to complete the upload.

Request Account Deactivation
If a customer is no longer interested in keeping an active profile with your company, they can request to deactivate their account.
After logging into their dashboard, customers can click on the main menu in the header section to view the drop-down options. From here, they would select "Deactivate Account"
A pop-up will appear asking why the customer is deactivating their account. They can add feedback to the request as well. Finally, they will click the red "Deactivate" button to submit the request.
Once the request has been submitted, the customer will see a green system notification at the top of the page letting them know the request has been submitted successfully.
Customers will still be able to access their account, book services, etc. until the admin or staff approve the deactivation request.
Once approved, the customer will no longer be able to log in and access their dashboard.



Locating invoices in the dashboard
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/locating-invoices-in-the-dashboard

Locating invoices in the dashboard
Learn how to navigate the invoice dashboard, including where to view active and draft invoices, filter invoices by type and status, add tags, and export invoices.

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to filter active and draft invoices
Ģ Where to view active, draft, and overdue invoices
Ģ How to add tags to invoices
Ģ How to export invoices

The Invoice Dashboard
To view all invoices in the system, go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices tab

Invoice Filters
The dashboard contains several different filters that you can use to locate invoices for your customers.

Click on the Type filter to view All invoices, One-time invoices, or Recurring invoices.

Click on the Card Status filter to view All invoices, invoices with a Card on File , or invoices with No Card on File .

Click on the Pay Status filter to filter invoices based on the following statuses: All , Partial Paid (for invoices with partial/advance payment enabled), Unpaid , Void , and Uncollectible.

Click here to learn how to charge or manually change a customs invoice's payment status.

Use the Select Date filter to search for invoices based on the date they were created.

Invoices can also be located by searching the invoice number , customer email address , customer name , or customer phone number .

Invoice Status
In addition to the invoice filters, there are also tabs to sort invoices based on their status.

Ģ Active - Invoices that have been approved will be displayed
Ģ Draft - Invoices that have not been approved will be displayed.
? Click here to learn how to approve and send an invoice.
Ģ Overdue - Invoices past the due date will be displayed.
Ģ All - All invoices regardless of status will be displayed.

Invoice Tags
In addition to invoice filters and status, you can also add your own custom tags to active invoices. Tags are only visible to admin and staff accounts. To add a tag, first, be sure you are on the Active Invoice tab.

Next, click the down arrow button below the Actions column and select Add Tag. Enter the name of the tag into the first field, and then click the blue Add button.

If you create multiple tags, you can use the Display Order field to decide which order the tags will be displayed in.

Once a tag has been saved, it can be selected from the Existing Tag option when tagging new invoices.

Export Invoices
The dashboard allows you to export invoices based on filters, status, and tags.  To export your invoices, click the grey Export button on the far right side of the menu.

A side menu will appear, displaying options for filtering the invoices for the export file.

These include Status (All, Overdue, Draft, Active), Pay Status (Paid, Partial Paid, Unpaid, Void, Uncollectible), Date created, and Invoice Tags.

Below, select which fields should be included in the export data.

Finally, click the blue Export button to download the export file.

A green system alert will appear in the top right corner of the screen confirming the invoices have been exported successfully, and the file will be downloaded to your device.



Invoice module overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/invoice-module-overview

Invoice module overview
Learn about the BookingKoala Invoice Module and how to use its features.

Last updated on 04 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:

Ģ What features are included in the Invoice Module
Ģ Which BookingKoala subscriptions include the Invoice Module
Ģ Where to locate the Invoice Module

How do I use the Invoice Module?
The Invoice Module is designed to help you send invoices to customers, track invoice status, and charge invoice payments.

An invoice is a bill that lists the services provided to the customer with a statement of the total payment due. Invoices can be created for new or existing customers. Click here to learn how to create and send a new invoice .

Click here to learn how to edit the payment details pages, including the customer invoice page, invoice payment page, and invoice thank you page.

All invoices both active and drafted can be viewed from the Invoice Dashboard . Click here to learn how to navigate the invoice dashboard, including how to filter invoices by frequency, card status, payment status, date, and more.

Once created, invoices may be modified in many ways. Click here to learn how to edit , duplicate , or delete an active or draft invoice.

Click here to learn how to download or print an active or draft invoice.

Click here to learn how to resend an invoice and manually send an invoice link.

Click here to learn how to send an invoice card link to a customer.

Click here to learn how to charge or change the payment status of a custom invoice.

Invoices also have logs and payment logs to see what changes have taken place for any particular invoice. Click here to learn where to view these logs.

It is also possible to set up and edit the customer invoice pages in the website builder .

Ģ Click here to learn how to edit the customer Invoice page.
Ģ Click here to learn how to edit the customer Invoice Payment page.
Ģ Click here to learn how to edit the customer Invoice Thank You page.

Click here to learn more about how recurring invoices work in relation to customers, bookings, and reminders.

Click here to learn how changes made to bookings, charges, and credit card holds impact their invoices.

Who has access to the Invoice Module?
The Invoice Module is included in all subscriptions .

However, several features in the Invoice Module are only included in the Premium subscription , specifically the ability to:

Ģ Hide the BookingKoala branding at the bottom of the invoice
Ģ Send invoices via email and SMS automatically
Ģ Add reminders for an invoice
Ģ Send a customer a card link for an invoice
Ģ Allow partial/advanced payment
Ģ Allow the customer to add a tip

Where can I find the Invoice Module?
To open the Invoice Module, go to the main menu on the left of your Dashboard and click on the " Bookings " tab. Then, select " Booking Charges ". At the top of the page, select the " Invoices " tab.



How to edit, duplicate, or delete an invoice
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-edit-duplicate-or-delete-an-invoice

How to edit, duplicate, or delete an invoice
Learn how to edit, duplicate, or delete an active or draft invoice.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to edit an active or draft invoice
Ģ How to duplicate an active or draft invoice
Ģ How to delete an active or draft invoice

Getting Started
To view all invoices in the system, go to: Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices tab

Edit an Invoice
It is possible to edit invoices of any status from the invoice dashboard. Simply use the filters to locate the invoice (click here to learn more about how to filter invoices by type, status, etc.), and then click the blue Edit button under the Actions column.

This option will bring you back to the invoice creation options as detailed in this article on how to create invoices. The invoice will be updated as you click the blue Next and Save and Continue buttons along the top of the page.

Duplicate an Invoice
To duplicate an invoice, locate an invoice in the dashboard and click the down arrow in the Actions column to reveal the Duplicate option.

A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this invoice. Click the blue Confirm button to proceed.

The new invoice will have all of the same details as the original and will automatically be saved as a draft once you navigate to the next section.

Delete an Invoice
To permanently delete an invoice, locate an invoice in the dashboard and click the down arrow in the Actions column to reveal the Delete option.

A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to duplicate this invoice. Click the blue Confirm button only if you are certain you are ready to proceed as this action cannot be undone.



Creating customer invoices
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/creating-customer-invoices

BookingKoala

Back To BookingKoala

Search

Open menu

Looking for help?

Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides

BookingKoala Help Center

Customers

Creating customer invoices

Customers

Creating customer invoices

Learn how to create an invoice for a new or existing customer, customize invoices, enable partial/advance payment, and more.

Last updated on 30 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

How to create an invoice for a new or existing customer

How to create a booking invoice or a custom invoice

How to customize an invoice

How to enable partial or advance invoice payment

How to automatically or manually send an invoice

How to manage invoice reminders and notifications

How to approve and send an invoice

How to Create a New Invoice

To begin, go to the

Invoice Dashboard

under:

Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices tab

.

Click on the blue

Create an Invoice

button in the top right corner of the page.

Next, select whether you will create an invoice for a new or an existing customer.

Invoicing a New or Existing Customer

If you are creating an invoice for a new customer, select the

New Customer

option at the top of the section and fill out the customer details in the boxes below. Then click the blue

Next

button at the top right corner of the form.

If you are creating an invoice for an existing customer, select the

Existing Customer

option at the top of the section and use the box below to search for the customer by name, email address, or phone number.

Next, select an

Existing Address

for the customer, or select the

New Address

option to enter a new address.Ā Then, click on the blue

Next

button to proceed to the next step.

There are two options for the invoice type: creating a

custom invoice

or creating an invoice

from a

booking

.

The difference between the two options is that custom invoices are not directly linked to any bookings in the system.

Invoice Frequency

Next, select whether this invoice will be a

one-time

or

recurring

invoice.

For the

Custom

option, select

One Time

under

Select Frequency

to create a single invoice with an

issue date, due date,

and

time the invoice should be sent.

To create a recurring invoice, select

Recurring

under

Select Frequency

.Ā Next, set how often the invoice will repeat (

Daily

,

Weekly

,

Monthly

,

Yearly

, or

Custom

) and set the

date

for the first invoice and, optionally, when the invoices will endĀ (

Never

,

On Date

,

After

).

At the bottom of the section, select the

time range

in which the invoice will be sent, and the

due date

for each invoice.

If you select the

From Booking

option and create a

one-time

invoice, you can pick one or more bookings from the section below to associate with this invoice.

First, select the

issue date

, the

due date

, and

what time the invoice should be sent.

Then, click the blue

Select Bookings

button at the bottom of the page and then use the date range option or search bar to search for bookings by ID.Ā Check the box next to the booking ID(s) you'd like to select and click the

Add Selected Booking(s)

button to add the bookings to the invoice.

If creating a

recurring

series of invoices using the

From Booking(s)

option, select how often the invoice will

repeat

(

Monthly

,

Yearly

,

Custom

), the

booking date range

in which invoices will be generated, and optionally when the invoices will endĀ (

Never

,

On Date

,

After

).

Next, select the

time range

in which the invoice will be sent, and the

due date

for each invoice.

At the bottom of the section, decide what will happen if there are no bookings available in the system at the time an invoice is created.

Select

Create Booking and Send Invoice

if you would like to system to generate a booking for the time period and send the customer an invoice for it; otherwise, select

Skip Invoice

so no invoice will be sent on this particular occasion until a booking is available in the system or the recurring schedule end date has been reached.

Once you have finished setting the invoice frequency and due dates, click the blue

Next

button at the top right corner of the form to proceed to the next section.Ā At this point, the invoice will be saved as a draft.

Customize an Invoice

The next section of invoice creation allows you to customize the content and appearance of the invoice.

Click the

plus sign

icon next to

Customization

to edit the

invoice number

for the customer and

manage translation

, and click on

ManageĀCustomization

to make changes to invoice

media

,

company name

,

company email

,

company address

,

invoice number text

,

issue date text

,

due date text

,

billed to text

, and pay invoice

button text

.Ā To hide a section from the invoice, click the green

Show

button to switch it to

Hide.

If you are creating a

from booking invoice

, you can select whichĀform parametersĀthe customer will view on the invoice by clicking on the

plus sign

icon next toĀthe

Form Parameters

section.Ā Check the box next to each parameter to display in the booking table.

If you are creating a custom booking, you will see the form parameters as they have been set up in the website and theme builder under:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme > Page menu > Payment Details > Invoice

In the website builder, these sections can be modified by clicking on the element ID and then using the

Edit, Add row, Add column,

and

Rearrange

buttons.

To learn more about how to modify these custom parameters, please view the guide on how to

Edit the Customer Invoice Template

.

A preview of the invoice will be shown in the section below.

To add a note to the invoice, simply enter the text into the

Note

section below the invoice preview.

At the bottom of the page, there is an option to

hide

the

BookingKoala branding

if it is not hidden already. To do so, select

Click Here

to launch the website and theme builder in a separate tab.

Once inside the website and theme builder, click on the

Settings

button in the top menu and scroll down the

General

tab until you reach the

Powered by BookingKoala branding

option.

Click the green

Enabled

button to switch it to

Disabled

, then click the blue

Save

button at the bottom of the side menu.Ā Once you refresh the invoice page, the branding will be hidden.

Once you have made any changes to customize the content and appearance of the invoice, click the blue

Save and Continue

button at the top of the page.

Premium Invoice Charging Options

Once an invoice draft has been created and saved, you can customize how the invoice will be charged.Ā There are two extra options available for

Premium subscribers

:

Allow partial/advance payment

and

Allow customer to add tip

.

Allow Partial or Advance Payment

If you check the box next to

Allow partial/advance payment,

the invoice payment can be split into multiple parts.Ā Select

how many parts

from the dropdown menu and then enter the percentage of payment for each part.

For example, if you would like the invoice to be split into

three payments

, select

3

below the option for

How many parts do you want to split the partial payment?

and then enter the percentage for each payment into the boxes.Ā In this example, the first two payments are

33%

of the final total so the final remaining payment will automatically be set to

34%

.

Allow Customers to Add Tips

The second premium charging option allows the customer to

add tip(s) to the invoice payment

.

If the invoice is

custom

, check the box next to

Allow customer to add tip

and select the provider(s) using the box to search their name or email address.Ā Check the box(es) next to the provider(s) name(s) and then click the blue

Select

button.

If the invoice is

from booking(s)

, there are several options for how the tips are allotted to the bookings.

Under the question

Do you want to allow the tip to be added for combine or specific with booking(s)?,

select

Combine

for the tip to be automatically combined with the total of the bookings due for this invoice.

For the question

How should we divide tip with booking(s)?

, select

All Bookings

to have the tip divided equally amongst the total number of bookings due for this invoice.Ā For example, if there are three bookings covered in this invoice and the customer leaves a $60 tip, each booking will have a $20 tip added for the provider(s).

If you select

First Booking

, the customer's tip will be added to the first booking only. For example, if there are three bookings covered by this invoice and the customer leaves a $60 tip, the first booking will have a $60 tip and the second and third bookings will have a $0 tip.

If you would prefer for the tip to be added individually to the recurring booking(s), select

Specific

for

Do you want to allow the tip to be added for combine or specific with booking(s)?

Once you have finished with the Charges section, click the blue

Next

button in the top right corner of this section to proceed to the next step.

Invoice Delivery Options

The final step of the invoice creation process is the delivery options section.Ā Invoices can be delivered via

email

and

SMS

for the

Premium

Subscription

.

Invoices can be sent

automatically

if you are a

Premium Subscriber

, otherwise, each invoice will need to be sent manually via an invoice link.ĀTo upgrade your plan to include automatically sent invoices, click the blue

Upgrade Now

button within the

Send Automatically

box.

Send an Invoice Automatically

To send invoices automatically, select the

Send Automatically

option for the

email

and/or

SMS

tabs.

For automatic emails to work, please be sure you have set up and verified your sender email address by following the instructions in

this article

.

For automatic SMS to work, please be sure you have set up your Twilio integration per the instructions in

this article

.

To CC one or more people on the invoice email, check the box next to

Include additional email (CC)

and enter the email address into the box below.

Click the

plus sign

icon to add additional emails.

Each email CC'd can be saved to the customer's profile by checking the box next to

Add email to profile.

A separate billing email address can be added by checking the box next to

Billing Email

and entering the address into the box below.

If you'd like to attach the invoice as a

PDF

to the email, toggle the button next to

Do you want to attach pdf in email?

to

Yes.

Send an Invoice Manually

If you are not a Premium Subscriber, you can select the option to email or SMS the invoice manually to the customer.

The invoice link can be sent once you have finished creating the invoice.

Click here

for instructions on how to send an invoice by copying the invoice link.

Manage Invoice Reminders

Below the sending options, you can schedule reminders for your customer(s) to pay the invoice.Ā To begin, click the blue

Add Reminders

button within the

Schedule Reminders

box.

Next, toggle the button next to

Should we send invoice reminders to your customers?

to

Yes

. Click the grey

Add Reminder

button at the top right corner of the popup to add a new reminder.

Reminders can be set for a number of

days after the due date

, a number of

days before the due date

, or

on the due date

.Ā If applicable, enter the

number of days

before or after the due date.Ā An optional message can also be included in the reminder.

Click the grey

Add Reminder

button to add additional reminders as needed, and then use the blue

Save

button to save the reminder(s) to the invoice.

Manage Invoice Notifications

At the bottom of the section, you can control which notification, you, the customer, and the provider receive once the invoice has been paid.

To view and edit the templates for these notifications, please go to:

Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS/App Notifications

Click the

Edit

button to the right of each template to view and edit it.

These

Invoice

sections under the

Admin

and

Customer

tabs contain multiple templates for a variety of circumstances, including when an invoice is issued, updated, paid (either partially or fully), declined, refunded, and more.

Approve and Send an Invoice

Once you have finished setting your invoice delivery options, click the blue

Next

button at the top right corner of the section.

If you are ready to finalize the invoice and send it out automatically or manually, click the blue

Approve and Start Recurring Invoice

or

Approve and Send Invoice

button below where it says

You are almost done!

You will be redirected to the

Invoice Dashboard

where you can view all of your active invoices. If you selected for the invoice to be

Sent Automatically

, you are all set! If you selected

SendĀManually

, you can copy the invoice link from the Actions options next to the invoice as shown below.

The

copy link

option corresponds with the

Invoice

page under:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Once inside, click on the top center

Page

menu, select

Payment Details

then the

Invoice

page.

Click here

to learn more about how to edit the

Payment Details

pages inside the website and theme builder.

Related Articles

How to edit, duplicate, or delete an invoice

Learn how to edit, duplicate, or delete an active or draft invoice.

How to download or print an invoice

Learn how to download or print an active or draft invoice.

How to view invoice logs

Learn where to view invoice logs including payment logs for draft invoices.

Locating invoices in the dashboard

Learn how to navigate the invoice dashboard, including where to view active and draft invoices, filter invoices by type and status, add tags, and export invoices.

Edit the customer invoice payment page

Learn how to edit and set up your customer invoice payment page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Edit the customer invoice thank you page

Learn how to edit and set up your customer invoice thank you page in the Website & Theme Builder.

Recurring invoice Q&As

Learn more about how recurring invoices work concerning customers, bookings, and reminders.

Invoice payment Q&As

Learn how changes made to bookings, charges, and credit card holds impact their invoices.

How to charge or change the status of a custom invoice

Learn how to charge or change the payment status of an active custom invoice.

Invoice module overview

Learn about the BookingKoala Invoice Module and how to use its features.

Set up the default invoice template

Learn how to edit and set up your customer invoice page/template in the Website & Theme Builder.

How to send an invoice

Learn how to resend an invoice and manually send an invoice link.

Did you find this article helpful?

Yes

No

Previous

How to download or print an invoice

Next



How to download or print an invoice
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-download-or-print-an-invoice

How to download or print an invoice
Learn how to download or print an active or draft invoice.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to download an active or draft invoice
Ģ How to print an active or draft invoice

Getting Started
To begin, go to the Invoice Dashboard under: Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices tab.

Download an Invoice
To download an invoice, locate an invoice in the dashboard and click the down arrow in the Actions column to reveal the Download option.

A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to download this invoice. Click the blue Confirm button to proceed.

A copy of the invoice will be downloaded as a PDF to your device.

Print an Invoice
If you would like to print an invoice, locate the invoice in the dashboard and click the down arrow in the Actions column to reveal the Print option. This will automatically launch the print option for your device.

Set the printer next to Destination and then click Print, or select Save as PDF and then click Save to save the file to your device.



How to charge or change the status of a custom invoice
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-charge-or-change-the-status-of-a-custom-invoice

How to charge or change the status of a custom invoice
Learn how to charge or change the payment status of an active custom invoice.

Last updated on 31 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How to charge an active invoice
Ģ How to change the payment status of an active invoice

Getting Started
To begin, go to the Invoice Dashboard under:

Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices tab .

Charge an Invoice
Once an invoice is due, it is possible to collect payment by charging a custom invoice manually.

Go to the Active Invoice tab, scroll down to the custom invoice, and click the Charge option beneath the Actions column.

A menu will appear on the right side of the page.

If the invoice is a custom invoice, there is an option for Do you want to pay the provider? If you select Yes , you can search for the providers and enter their portion of the payment.

Below, the Payment Information section will display options for the billing address as well as any cards on file.  There is also the option to add a new card on file for the payment.

Near the bottom of the menu, there is an option to exclude the customer notification that their card has been charged.

Finally, once a card has been selected or a new card has been entered, click the blue Charge button to charge the customer's invoice.

A green system alert will appear at the top right corner of the page, confirming the charge has been collected.  The status of the invoice will be updated to Paid.

Change an Custom Invoice's Payment Status
One can also change a custom invoice's payment status using the manual Change Status option.

To access this, go to the Active or Overdue invoice tab, click the down arrow icon beneath the actions column, and select Change Status.

A popup will appear with three different options for updating the payment status.

Ģ Paid - The payment has been collected outside of BookingKoala.  The invoice status will be updated to Paid with a Cash/Check tag added beneath the amount.
Ģ Void - The invoice was created my mistake or was accidentally finalized so no payment has been collected.
Ģ Uncollectible - Payment for this invoice is not expected; however, it is still possible to collect payment should your customer attempt to make payment.  The invoice status will be updated to Uncollectible.

You can also choose to leave an internal note viewable to the admin and staff only that describes why a particular payment status was selected.

Finally, click the blue Update button to finalize the payment status.  A green system alert will appear in the top right corner confirming the status has been updated successfully.



How to send an invoice
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-an-invoice-or-invoice-card-link

How to send an invoice
Learn how to resend an invoice and manually send an invoice link.

Last updated on 11 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to resend an active invoice to a customer
Ģ How to send an invoice link to a customer

Getting Started
To begin, go to the Invoice Dashboard under:

Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices tab .

Resend an Invoice
If an invoice is overdue and the customer has not made a payment yet, you can resend the invoice to the customer. To do this, go to the invoice dashboard and click on the Overdue tab.

Next, click on the down arrow icon beneath the Actions column and select Resend.

A pop-up will ask if you are sure you'd like to resend the invoice. Click the blue Confirm button to proceed.

Send an Invoice Link
If you are manually sending an invoice link to a customer, go to the Active or Overdue tab on the invoice dashboard for any manual invoices you have created.

Then, click on the down arrow icon beneath the Actions column and select Copy Link.

A green system alert will appear at the top right corner of the page, confirming that the invoice link has been successfully copied. This link can then be added to an email or SMS message and sent to the customer manually.



How to view invoice logs
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-view-invoice-logs

How to view invoice logs
Learn where to view invoice logs including payment logs for draft invoices.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to view invoice logs for active and draft invoices
Ģ How to view invoice payment logs for draft invoices

Getting Started
To begin, go to the Invoice Dashboard under: Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices tab.

Invoice Logs
Invoice logs are logs that show the types of updates an invoice has undergone. This includes when the invoice was created, if the invoice was updated, and any changes in payment status to the invoice.

To view an invoice's logs, click on the down arrow icon beneath the Actions column and select View Log.

The invoice logs can be filtered by actions taken by the merchant, staff, and customer by clicking on the Roll drop-down menu.

Each log will include the invoice number, the action taken, who modified the invoice, and the time of the modification.

Invoice Payment Logs
Invoice payment logs show details related to payment(s) made toward an invoice. For example, if an invoice is set for partial payment, there would be multiple logs showing each payment made towards the invoice.

To view an invoice's payment logs, click on the down arrow icon beneath the Actions column and select Payment Logs.

A popup will display all payment logs related to that invoice.



Charge a booking or separate fee using the add charge option
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/charge-a-booking-or-separate-fee-using-the-add-charge-option

Charge a booking or separate fee using the add charge option
Learn how to mass charge bookings or how to charge a separate fee outside of the booking charge.

Last updated on 05 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to use the Add Charge option

Using the Add Charge Option
The Add Charge option has been designed to allow the merchant and staff to charge bookings and charge separate fees outside of the total associated with a particular booking. To access this feature, please go to:

Bookings > Booking Charges > Pending or All Charges tab

Click the white Add Charge button located in the upper-right corner of the section. There are two different options located in the Add Charge feature: Charge Booking and Separate Charge.

Ģ The Charge Booking option allows you to charge or precharge a booking already in the system.
Ģ The Separate Charge option allows you to create an extra charge not associated with a booking in the system.

Charge a Booking

To use the Charge Booking option, search the customer's name, email address, or phone number in the search field to locate their profile.

Click on the customer profile to view and check the boxes next to the booking(s) you would like to charge. The total charge amount will be displayed in the field below.

Next, click the Payment Information section to enter a new credit card , select an existing credit card , or pick cash/check to charge the booking.

At the bottom of the side menu, click the Notification section if you would like to disable or exclude customer notifications from being sent upon charging the booking(s).

Finally, click the blue Charge button at the bottom right corner of the menu to process the booking charge. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, confirming the charge has been successfully processed.

Create a Separate Charge

To use the Separate Charge option, select Separate Charge at the top of the Add Charges section. Next, select whether the charge will be for a New Customer or an Existing Customer.

Ģ If the charge is for a New Customer , fill out the fields below to create a customer profile upon charging.
Ģ If the charge is for an Existing Customer , search the customer's name, email, or phone number is the search field to select their profile and an address to associate with the charge.

Next, enter the total you want to charge the customer into the Charge Amount section.

Next, click the Do you want to pay provider(s)? section and select whether any providers should receive a portion of this charge as payment.

Ģ Select Yes to pay one or more providers by searching their name in the search field and allocating their payment amount to the right of their name.
Ģ Select No if none of the payments should be allocated to providers.

If you'd like to add any notes to the charge, click on the Notes section and click the blue Add Note button. Notes can be added for the merchant/staff , the provider(s) , and/or the customer .

If you would like to include the customer note in the customer's charge notification, check the box next to Include in notification.

Next, click the Payment Information section to enter a new credit card , select an existing credit card , or pick cash/check to charge the booking.

At the bottom of the side menu, click the Notification section if you would like to disable or exclude customer notifications from being sent upon charging the booking(s).

Finally, click the blue Charge button at the bottom right corner of the menu to process the booking charge. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, confirming the charge has been successfully processed.



Invoice payment Q&As
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/invoice-payment-q-and-as

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ What happens to invoices when bookings are canceled, voided, postponed, ID changes, or their amount is marked leave as is
Ģ How the invoice changes when the booking amount changes
Ģ What happens to invoices when the booking is charged from somewhere other than the invoice
Ģ How invoices handle bookings with credit card holds

What will happen to the invoice if bookings are canceled, voided, postponed, their ID changes, or their amount is marked as "leave as it is"?
If bookings in an invoice are canceled, voided, postponed, their ID changes, or their amount is marked as "leave as it is", the impact on the invoice will depend on the payment status of the bookings and invoice.

Please note: If the invoice is fully paid, these actions will not impact the invoice.

Ģ No charge on booking s: If the bookings are not paid yet or if no charges have been performed, the bookings will be removed from the invoice. If there was only one booking in the invoice, the invoice will be marked as canceled.
Ģ Charge on bookings: If the charge on the booking has already been performed and it is canceled, voided, postponed, their ID changes, or their amount is marked as "leave as it is", that booking will be removed from the invoice, but a static line item will be placed for that booking with the charged amount. The booking(s) static line item will be shown as follows:

? Canceled booking
? Postponed booking
? Voided booking
? Booking ID changed :
? Leave "as it is" booking with a decreased amount
? Leave "as it is" booking with an increased amount

Please note : The cancellation refund is not considered on the invoice.

How will the invoice be affected if the booking amount increases or decreases?
The booking amount can be changed from booking reschedule/update or from booking time logs.

A booking "B1" for $100 is present in invoice #101. The total amount of the invoice is $100. The booking has been rescheduled, with the amount becoming $140. As a result, the invoice total amount will automatically change to $140. The same applies to the amount decrease.

Please note: If the invoice is fully paid, these actions will not impact the invoice.

What happens to an invoice if the booking is charged from somewhere other than the invoice?
Apart from the invoice. A booking in the invoice can be charged from pending charges listing, upcoming bookings listing, or through auto-charge if the setting is enabled.

In this case, the charge will be synced on the invoice as well.

Cases that may arise include the following:

Ģ There is a booking "B1" in invoice #101.

? The B1 booking amount is $230. Thus, the total invoice amount is also $230.
? The invoice is yet unpaid.
? Booking B1 is charged from pending charges listing, upcoming bookings listing, or through auto-charge.
? The invoice #101 will be marked as paid automatically (if it is sent to the customer).
? If the invoice is not sent/scheduled, it will be marked as partially paid, and when it is sent, if there is no remaining amount it will be marked as fully paid. It will be marked as paid.

How does the invoice handle card-hold bookings?
On booking invoices, the card hold is handled through the setting given in the store options section:

Store Options > General > Invoice Settings

If the setting is set to:

Ģ Release : Upon invoice successful payment, a new charge is performed based on the selected card, and the hold amount (if any) is released.
Ģ Capture : The held amount will be captured using the card placed under the hold. Any remaining amount will then be charged against the invoice card selected.

Please Note : If a partial payment is made on an invoice and the setting is to capture, then the card hold amount will overwrite that amount.

For example, there is a booking "B1" with an amount of $200 and a card hold of $120 is present in the invoice having a total amount of $200, which can be paid in three installments of 10%, 20%, and 70%. The customer has chosen to pay 10% ($20) of the invoice charge. Instead of $20, the total hold amount of $120 will be taken.

With the invoice paid notification, you can send a single booking charge or pre-charge notification.
In addition to the "invoice paid" notification, you can also send the booking charge/ pre-charge notification using the settings under:

Store Options > General > Payment

Ģ If the setting is ō Yes ö, then along with the "invoice paid" notification, an individual booking charge notification including the service receipt (if enabled) will also be sent to the customer.
Ģ If the setting is ōNoö, then only invoice notification will be sent.

Please Note: Voided or marked "leave as it is" bookings will not be added to recurring or one-time invoices.



Recurring invoice Q&As
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/recurring-invoice-q-and-as

Recurring invoice Q&As
Learn more about how recurring invoices work concerning customers, bookings, and reminders.

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ The limitations and criteria involved in creating recurring invoices
Ģ How SMS and email reminders interact with invoice updates

Recurring Invoice Limitations and Criteria
Is there a limit on how many recurring booking invoices you can create for a customer?
You can create only one recurring booking invoice schedule per customer.

What are the criteria for which bookings are selected in recurring invoice bookings?
It depends on which frequency of recurring booking invoices are created.

Daily recurring booking invoices
Let's say a customer has active bookings with a daily schedule. We create a booking-based recurring invoice with a daily frequency with a booking date range of February 8 to the end date of February 14.  Invoices will be sent as follows:

Ģ Invoice 1 -> Feb 10 (with bookings for range Feb 8 - Feb 10)
Ģ Invoice 2 -> Feb 11 (with bookings for range  Feb 8 - Feb 11)
Ģ Invoice 3 -> Feb 12 (with bookings for range  Feb 8 - Feb 12)
Ģ Invoice 4 -> Feb 13 (with bookings for range  Feb 8 - Feb 13)
Ģ Invoice 5 -> Feb 14 (with bookings for range  Feb -8  Feb 14)

No further invoices will be generated after February 14 (the end date).

Weekly recurring booking invoices
Let's suppose the customer has active bookings with a weekly schedule and we are creating a bookings recurring invoice with a weekly frequency with a booking date range of February 10 (sent every Saturday) and an end date of March 11. Invoices will be sent as follows:

Ģ Invoice 1 -> Feb 10 (with bookings from Feb 10 to Feb 16)
Ģ Invoice 2 -> Feb 17 (with bookings for range Feb 10 - Feb 23)
Ģ Invoice 3 -> Feb 24 (with bookings for range Feb 10 - March 1)
Ģ Invoice 4 -> March 2 (with bookings for range Feb 10 - March 8)
Ģ Invoice 5 -> March 9 (with bookings for range Feb 10 - March 11)

No further invoices will be generated after 11 March.

Monthly recurring booking invoices
Let's suppose the customer has active bookings with an every 4 weeks schedule and some one-time bookings and we are creating a booking recurring invoice with a monthly frequency starting on February 10 (sent on every 10th of the month) and an end date of April 11. Invoices will be sent as follows:

Ģ Invoice 1 -> Feb 10 (with bookings from Feb 10 to March 9)
Ģ Invoice 2 -> March 10 (with bookings for the range Feb 10 - April 9)
Ģ Invoice 3 -> April 10 (with bookings for the range Feb 10 - April 11)

No further invoices will be generated after April 11, as the frequency end date is reached.

Yearly recurring booking invoices
Let's suppose the customer has active bookings with a monthly schedule and some other bookings with different frequencies. We are creating recurring invoices with a yearly frequency starting on February 10 (sent on the 10th of every February (2024) and ending on February 10, 2026. Invoices will be sent as follows:

Ģ Invoice 1 -> Feb 10, 2024 (with bookings from Feb 10 2024 to Feb 9, 2025)
Ģ Invoice 2 -> Feb 10, 2025 (with bookings for the range Feb 10, 2024 - Feb 9, 2026)
Ģ Invoice 3 -> Feb 10, 2026 (with bookings for the range Feb 10, 2024 - Feb 10, 2026 )

No further invoices will be generated after February 10, 2026, as the frequency end date is reached.

What are the criteria by which the repeat type of invoice is selected?
The recurring type of invoice is selected based on the customer's active recurring bookings frequencies. Let's suppose a customer has daily and weekly frequency bookings, the frequency will be shown in the invoice as weekly, monthly, or yearly. Based on the higher booking frequency of the customer, Bookingkoala gives options for choosing recurring invoice frequency.

Please refer to the following table to help you understand this:

Booking FrequencyInvoice FrequencyDailyDaily, Weekly, Monthly, YearlyDaily no Saturday or SundayDaily, Weekly, Monthly, YearlyDaily no SundayDaily, Weekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery Monday, FridayWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery Monday, Wednesday, FridayWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery Tuesday and ThursdayWeekly, Monthly, YearlySaturday SundayWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery Tuesday, Wednesday, FridayWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery Monday, WednesdayWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery Monday, ThursdayWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery weekWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery 2 weekWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery 3 weekWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery 4 weekWeekly, Monthly, YearlyEvery 5 weekMonthly, YearlyEvery 6 weekMonthly, YearlyEvery 7 weekMonthly, YearlyEvery 8 weekMonthly, YearlyEvery 9 weekMonthly, YearlyEvery 10 weekMonthly, YearlyEvery 11 weekMonthly, YearlyEvery 12 weekMonthly, YearlyEvery 24 weekMonthly, YearlyIs it possible for recurring booking invoices to be canceled automatically?
Generally, there is one primary reason for canceling recurring invoices. If there are no bookings available to generate an invoice, there is a possibility that the booking recurring invoice has been canceled.

Invoice Reminders and Notifications
Can we send the customer reminders about their invoices?
Yes, you can send invoice reminders to the customer via email and SMS. For this, you must include reminders in the invoice.

Ģ How many types of reminders can we send to the customer for payment?

There are three types of invoice reminders:

Ģ "Before due-date" reminders
Ģ "On due-date" reminders
Ģ "After due-date" reminders

Is it possible to set email reminders at a different time?
For email reminders, set up the following settings:

Settings > Notifications > Emails > Customer > Invoice

There are three email templates for reminders:

Ģ "Invoice Due Today" Reminder
Ģ "Invoice Overdue" Reminder
Ģ "Upcoming Payment" For Invoice Reminder

You can select any hour range to send the email reminder to the customer.

Is it possible to set SMS reminders at a different time?
For SMS reminders, set up the following settings:

Settings > Notifications > SMS > Customer > Invoice

There are three SMS templates for reminders:

Ģ "Invoice Due Today" Reminder
Ģ "Invoice Overdue" Reminder
Ģ "Upcoming Payment For Invoice" Reminder

You can select any hour range to send the SMS reminder to the customer.

What is the maximum number of invoice reminders we can send?
The system can send up to 5 invoice reminders per customer.



Separate charge feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/separate-charge-feature

Separate charge feature
Learn which features are included in the separate charge feature, where to set them up, and how to use them for admin, providers, customers, and staff.

Last updated on 20 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is a separate charge?
Ģ How do separate charges work?
Ģ Separate payments for the providers
Ģ Notifications related to a separate charge
Ģ Syncing with third-party apps

What Is a Separate Charge?
The separate charge feature is a customer charging feature that provides an option to the admin to charge the customer irrespective of the booking. It's like a standalone charge that the admin can use to collect money from the customer for something unrelated to a booking.

How Do Separate Charges Work?
You can process a separate charge by clicking the ō Add charges ö button available at either of the following locations: Bookings > Booking charges > Pending Charges Or, Bookings > Booking charges > All Charges > Separate

By clicking the ō Add charge ö button, the ō Add charges ö side window appears from the right side of the screen from where you can select the option ō Separate Charge ö to proceed further.

Once you select the ō Separate Charge ö radio button option, you can add the ō Customer details ö for the ō New Customer ö or select the ō Existing Customer ö as mentioned below:

Ģ New Customer : If you select the new customer option, the system will add a new customer with the following customer details:
? First Name
? Last Name
? Gender (Male / Female / Unspecified)
? Email address
? Phone no.
? Address
? Apt. no.
? Please note that if the system can send notifications related to new customer additions, like "New Account" and "Reset Password", the system will send those notifications to this new customer.
Ģ Existing Customer : If you select the existing customer option, a ō Select Customer ö search bar will appear from where you can search for the existing customer's name. The search bar will show the available existing name options matching the search bar name. Click on the existing customerÆs name to select the customer and the system will display the following information related to the existing customer:
? Address Details : You can select the ō Existing address ö or add a ō New address ö.
Ģ For the ō Existing address ö option, the system shows all the saved addresses for that existing customer under the ō Saved addresses ö dropdown menu option. Upon selection of the appropriate saved address from the dropdown menu, the ō Address ö and ō Apt ö fields get filled with the data.
Ģ For the ō New address ö option, the system shows the blank fields of ō Address ö and ō Apt ö to which you can add the required data.

The next section is the ōCharge amountösection.
Clicking theōCharge amountö section opens the field where you can add a separate charge amount. Here you can add a fixed amount only. If the taxes are enabled, then the taxes will be charged on the amount added in the amount field and will be added to show the ōTotalö charge amount. You also have the option to exclude the tax for this separate charge, by checking the checkbox available in front of the option saying ō Do you want to exclude sales tax? ö.

Tax calculation on separate charge: The tax is calculated on separate charges based on the tax settings, from: Settings > General > Taxes If the tax is enabled then only it will be applicable on a separate charge.
Ģ For flat tax : If the setting, " Do you want to set different taxes for different locations?" is ō No ö, then the tax will be calculated based on the percentage selected. If the setting is ō Yes ö, then the tax will not be applicable on the separate charge.
Ģ For Taxify : The tax will be calculated based on the customer's address.

The next section is ō Do you want to pay provider(s)? ö from where you can select a provider/team to pay them separately. With the ō Yes ö option, the system allows you to select the provider/team and add the amount for making the payment against the separate charge, and if the ō No ö option is selected, then the providers/teams will not be paid any amount against this separate charge.

If the ō Yes ö option is selected, then a ō Select Provider(s) ö search bar will appear from where you can search for the name of the existing provider/team, and the search bar will show the available existing providerÆs/teamÆs name options matching the search bar name. Click on the checkbox against the existing providerÆs/teamÆs name that you want to select and click the ō Select ö button to select the provider. You can choose from here a single or multiple providers/teams. Once the ō Select ö button is clicked, the system adds all the providers/teams selected to this separate charge window and gives you the option to add the fixed amount that you want to pay to each provider/team, individually, against this separate charge.

If you have selected multiple providers/teams, you will see a trash bin icon against each one, which allows you to remove a particular provider/team from the separate charge. Please enter the fixed amount in the amount field available against each provider/team for the amount you want to pay to the provider(s)/team(s). You can click the ō Clear all ö button to reset the amount values and add again.

The next section is the ō Notesö section, where you can add notes for the merchant, customer, and provider/team.
Click on the ōAdd noteö button to open the ōAdd notesö pop-up window. Here, you can add any specific notes related to this separate charge for the merchant, customer, or provider/team. You can apply various test styles to the text and click on the ōSaveö button to save the notes.

Once the notes are saved, they appear in the ōNotesö section, with options to edit or delete them. Under the customer notes and providers/team notes, you will see a checkbox saying ō Includes in notification.ö Checking this checkbox will include the note in the customerÆs notification or the provider/team notifications, respectively.

The next section is the ōPayment Informationö section from where you can charge the separate charge amount by a credit/debit card or by cash/check.
Ģ Select the ō Existing credit card ö radio button option to charge the credit card from the already saved card option(s) available under the ō Your saved cardö dropdown field. Please note that this option will only appear for existing customers.
Ģ Select the ō New credit card ö option to open up the ō Add new cardö fields which allows you to add the card number, card expiry date in MM/YY format, and CVC on which the separate charge can be performed.
Ģ Select the ō Cash / check ö option if you want to charge the customer through cash, check, or any other mode of payment like bank transfers, etc.

The next section is the ō Notification ö section from where you have the option to exclude sending notifications regarding this separate charge. Checking the checkbox against ō Exclude notification for customer ö will exclude or will not send the notification to the customer regarding this separate charge.

Lastly, click on the ō Charge ö button to perform the charge. On the successful charge, the separate charge will appear at: Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges > under the ōSeparateötab
From where, you can sync this charge on QuickBooks (if QuickBooks is integrated) and can refund the charge by clicking the refund icon available against this charge.

How will the separate charge be taken with the 3DS2 authentication? In the case of 3DS2 authentication, separate charge notifications will be sent to the customer and also a ōseparate charge authentication badgeö will be added to the separate charge. Once the customer authenticates the charge from the reauthentication page, the charge will succeed.



Customer booking charges
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/customer-booking-charges

Customer booking charges
Learn more about the "Add Charges" option and how to process booking charges.

Last updated on 31 May, 2024

Charges for customer bookings
BookingKoala allows you to charge all the completed bookings of a customer.

You can process a charge by clicking the ōAdd chargesö button available at either of the following locations:
Ģ Bookings > Booking charges > Pending Charges
Ģ Bookings > Booking charges > All Charges

On the click of the ōAdd chargesö button, you will see two options. From which ōCharge booking(s)ö is autoselected. Search for the customer for whom you want to charge the bookings. You can search by name, email, or phone-number.

After searching the customer, you will see all the completed bookings of the searched customer. A booking is considered "complete" once the job length has passed in the system.
Ģ For example, if you schedule a 3-hour job at 8:00 AM, the system will consider the job finished at 11:01 AM.

You can select the booking(s) on which a charge should be applied from the list. In "Charge amount", you will see the total amount to be charged.

Now, you need to provide the payment information. In the payment information, you need to select the payment method. The following options are available to you:
Ģ Existing credit card (if there is one on file with the customer)
Ģ New credit card
Ģ Cash/check

Now, to perform the charge you need to click on the ōChargeö button.

Upon clicking the "charge" button, a single charge will be performed on all the selected bookings based on the selected payment information.

Location selection for Stripe payment gateway: If you are using a Stripe payment gateway, in that case, you also need to select the location. The payment will be processed based on location. The option is given because different locations can have different Stripe accounts associated with them.

Please Note: The charge will be processed based on the selected payment information, regardless of the payment information(payment method) provided on the booking.

To learn more about integrating Stripe as your payment processor, click here.

How will the card hold be handled? If there is a card hold on any/all of the selected bookings, the card hold amount will be captured and the remaining amount(if any) will be charged.

How will the charge decline be handled? If the charge is declined because of any reason, the booking(s) will be moved to the ōDeclinedö tab. From there, you can attempt a charge on the booking(s).

How does 3DS2 impact payment processing?
If the 3DS2 is enabled on your account and the 3DS2 authentication is requested by the payment processor during the charge, then an authentication email/SMS will be sent to the customer. On successful authentication by the customer. The charge will be processed and the booking(s) will be marked as charged.

Please Note: If the 3DS2 authentication request has already been sent for the booking. Then a duplicate request will not be sent.

Notifications sent: Upon successful processing of the charge, email and SMS notifications will be sent to the customer (if enabled).

To view, edit, or enable/disable CustomerÆs notification templates, go to:
Ģ Notifications > Email > Customer tab, or
Ģ Notifications > SMS > Customer tab.

Under the Booking Fee Charged & Refund section, you will see:
Ģ Bulk bookings charge
Ģ Bulk bookings charge authentication

Apart from these notification(s), if you want to send the individual charge notifications (email and SMS) to the customer, then you can send them using the setting under:
Ģ General > Store Options > Payment > Do you want to send individual charge notifications to the customer with the bulk charge or invoice charge?

If the setting is ōYesö, then the following notification(s) along with the above-mentioned bulk charge notification will be sent:
Ģ Booking charged
Ģ Service receipt

To learn more about 3DS2 authentication in BookingKoala, click here.



Partial/advance payments on invoices
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/understanding-partial-slash-advance-payments-on-invoices

Partial/advance payments on invoices
Learn how to set up partial payments on invoices. Partial and advance payments on invoices allow customers to pay an invoice in multiple installments rather than the full amount at once.

Last updated on 05 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand the following:
Ģ How partial/advance payment works in an invoice
Ģ How to show invoice payment logs to the customer
Ģ How card holds impact the partial payment

Enabling Partial/Advance Payment
When creating an invoice, you can allow partial or advance payments. This can be set up in the "Charges" section of the invoice creation process.

Look for the option "Allow partial/advance payment" and enable it by checking the box.
Ģ You can split the payment into a range of 2 to 10 installments.
Ģ Select the desired number of installments from the provided options.

Setting the Split Percentage
Ģ Define how the total amount will be split across the chosen installments.
Ģ Ensure the sum of the split percentages for the first and intermediate payments is less than 100%, as the remaining amount will be charged in the final installment.

For example, if you choose to split the payment into 3 parts:
Ģ 1st installment: 10%
Ģ 2nd installment: 30%
Ģ The final installment will automatically be the remaining 60%.

Example Scenario Let's illustrate this with a practical example:

Chosen Installments:
1st Installment: 10%
2nd Installment: 30%
Final Installment: The remaining balance (60%).

Customer Payment Process When the invoice is sent to the customer, they can pay the full amount or make a partial payment as defined by the chosen installments.

If the customer opts for partial payment, the percentage for the current installment will be applied to each booking amount.

First Installment:
Ģ 10% of booking 1: $50
Ģ 10% of booking 2: $35
Ģ 10% of booking 3: $20
Total for 1st Installment: $105

The invoice will be marked with the status "Partial payment" upon successful charge.

Second installment:
Ģ 30% of B1: $150
Ģ 30% of B2: $105
Ģ 30% of B3: $60
Total for 2nd Installment: $315

Again, the invoice will be marked with the "Partial payment" status upon the successful charge.

Final Installment:
The remaining balance to be paid from each booking.
On successful charge, the invoice will be marked as paid.

Show Invoice Payment Logs to the Customer
You can show the payment logs to the customer for partially paid invoices. By default, these logs are hidden. HereÆs how you can make them visible.

First, you will need to access the Website Builder & Themes. Please go to: Website Builder & Themes > Customize Themes > Page > Payment Details > Invoice

Customize the Invoice Page:
Ģ Find the table section under the "Pay Invoice" button.
Ģ Choose the option to show or hide the invoice logs.

The invoice payments will be shown to the customer in the invoice.

How Card Hold Impacts Partial Payment
When an invoice includes bookings with a card hold, the hold will be visible to the customer.

The way card holds are managed in invoices is determined by the settings configured in your store options. Go to: Store Options > General > Invoice Settings

Locate the setting: "What should happen if you have a card hold with invoiced bookings?"

Choose between two options:

Release: If you select the "Release" option, the card hold will be released when the invoice is processed.
Ģ The customer will then be charged the selected amount.
Ģ For example, if the booking amount in the invoice is $200, and there was a card hold for $200. The customer chose to pay 10% of the advance payment. The hold will be released, and a single charge of $20(10%) will be made.

Capture: If you select the "Capture" option, the card hold amount will be captured first.
Ģ Subsequent charges will be made for each installment as per the partial payment plan.
Ģ For example, if the booking amount in the invoice is $200, and there was a card hold for $200. The customer chose to pay 10% of the advance payment. Irrespective of the partial payment option, a complete $200 will be charged to the customer.



How to send an invoice card link
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-an-invoice-card-link

How to send an invoice card link
Learn more about invoice links including how to send an invoice card link to a customer.

Last updated on 04 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to send an invoice card link to a customer

Getting Started
To begin, go to the Invoice Dashboard under: Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices tab.

Send an Invoice Card Link
If you would like to send an invoice card link to a customer, go to the Active or Overdue tab on the invoice dashboard for any of the invoices you have created.

Then, click on the down arrow icon beneath the Actions column and select Send Card Link.

A pop-up will appear where you can either manually copy the card link URL, or you can select the blue Send button to send an email, SMS, or both with optional text to the customer with the add card link.



Resend an invoice
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/resend-an-invoice

Resend an invoice
Learn the difference between automatic versus manual invoice sending and how to resend an invoice to a client.

Last updated on 24 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ The difference between automatic and manual invoice sending
Ģ How to resend an invoice

Overview
If an invoice is overdue and the customer has not made a payment yet, you can easily resend the invoice. With our enhanced functionality, invoices can now be sent via both Email and SMS Śbut only for Premium Subscribers. Below are the details of how this feature works based on your subscription level.

Automatic vs. Manual Invoice Sending

For Premium Subscribers : Invoices can be sent automatically via Email or SMS, saving you valuable time. You simply need to configure your settings to enable this feature. If youÆre not a Premium Subscriber, youÆll need to manually send invoices through an invoice link.

Upgrade to Automatic Invoicing

If you're interested in the convenience of automatic invoicing, you can easily upgrade your subscription. Simply click the blue Upgrade Now button within the "Send Automatically" section to unlock this feature.

How to Send Invoices Automatically
To enable automatic sending of invoices for either Email or SMS:

885 Select the "Send Automatically" option for either the Email or SMS tabs (or both) when setting up your invoice.
886 Set up and verify your email for automatic email delivery . You can find step-by-step instructions on how to verify your sender email address in our dedicated email setup article.
887 Integrate with Twilio for SMS . If you wish to send invoices via SMS, you'll need to follow the instructions provided in our Twilio setup guide.

Additional Features for Premium Subscribers

Ģ CC Recipients : You can copy multiple recipients on your invoice emails. Just check the box labeled " Include additional email (CC) " and enter one or more email addresses in the provided fields. You can even save these email addresses to the customerÆs profile by checking the " Add email to profile " box.
Ģ Billing Email: Want to send the invoice to a separate billing address? Simply check the box labeled "Billing Email" and input the appropriate email address.
Ģ Attach Invoice as PDF: If you'd like to attach a PDF version of the invoice to the email, toggle the switch next to "Attach invoice as PDF" to Yes.

How to Send Invoices Manually
If you're not a Premium Subscriber, invoices can still be sent manually via email or SMS. Here's how:

888 After creating the invoice, you can choose to send it via email or SMS by selecting the respective options.
889 If you prefer, you can also send the invoice link directly to your customer. This allows them to view and pay the invoice at their convenience. Click here for detailed instructions on how to send the invoice link.



Revert a cash/check charge
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/revert-a-cash-slash-check-charge

Revert a cash/check charge
Learn how to revert a cash/check charge in the "All Charges" section.

Last updated on 24 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to revert a cash/check charge

Revert a Cash/Check Charge
WeÆve introduced the ability to revert bookings paid via cash/check back to a " Pending " status, allowing admins to reattempt charges or make booking adjustments more easily.

If you need to revert a cash/check charge for whatever reason, go to:

Bookings > Booking Charges > All Charges

Locate the charge you would like to revert in the list below. Then, click the down arrow button located under the " Actions " column on the far right and select " Revert to pending ".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you want to revert this cash/check payment. Select "Yes " to proceed. The booking charge will be reverted back to the " Completed " state where it can be found in the Pending charges section.



Add card link feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-card-link-feature

Add card link feature
Learn how to utilize the add card link feature by sending clients an SMS and/or email to securely add their card.

Last updated on 03 Feb, 2025

In this article, you will learn how to:
Ģ Enable and edit the "Add card link" notification templates
Ģ Locate the "Add card link" feature
Ģ Send the add card link to customers

The Add Card Link Feature
The "Send add card link" feature is a Premium feature that enables customers to add a card to their profile from various sections without logging in.

If a customer is uncomfortable providing their credit card information over the phone or wants to add a new card quickly without having to sign into their BookingKoala dashboard, the link can be sent by admin or staff during the booking process.

The "Add Card Link" can be sent via email, SMS, or both.

If you have multiple locations, the customer will select their location from a drop-down field, and then they can enter their card information into the field below. In many cases, the collection of card information is expedited by things like Google and Apple Pay.

Enable and Edit the Add Card Link Templates

To enable and preview what the actual "Add Card Link" notifications will look like, please go to: Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Customer tab > Account section

At the bottom of the "Account" section is the "Add card" template. Please ensure that the template is toggled to "Enabled" so the system can use it for your Add Card Link emails and SMS.

To edit the template, click the pencil icon/"Edit" button to the right of the template's description.

From here, you can apply master templates, add shortcodes, edit the text and content in the email body, and more.
Ģ Click here to learn more about master templates.
Ģ Click here to learn more about using shortcodes.
Ģ Click here to learn more about how to edit email notifications.
Ģ Click here to learn more about how to edit SMS notifications.

Locating the Send Add Card Link Buttons

The Send "Add card" link button can be located throughout the BookingKoala platform.

890 Go to any booking and click the "Edit"/"Reschedule" button. The "Send "Add card" link" button will be located along the right side of the page with the other action buttons.
891 In Calendar View, click on a booking to preview its details and locate the "Send "Add card" link" button at the bottom of the booking alongside the other action buttons.
892 Go to any customer's profile from the Customers section and then click on their Profile. Scroll down to the billing section to use the "Send "Add card" link" button.

Sending the "Add Card" Link

Once you've navigated to one of these locations, click on the button to open the Send Add Card Link popup window.

893 The topmost field allows you to add up to 200 characters worth of text to send along with the link to the customer.
894 Copy the Add Card Link URL to manually send it to the client.
895 Each link can be used once and then it will expire. If you need to send a new link, click the refresh button.
896 Decide whether you would like to send the link as an email, an SMS, or both.
897 Once you are ready, click the blue "Send" button to send the link the the customer.



Using the customer import tool
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/using-the-customer-import-tool

Using the customer import tool
Learn how to import customer information for faster migration and onboarding.

Last updated on 03 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Locate the import tool in the system
Ģ Create and upload information from a .CSV file
Ģ Undo an import
Ģ Send an invitation to create a password for newly imported contacts
Ģ Connect customer payment processor accounts using the import tool
Ģ Troubleshoot the common errors while uploading/importing the customer/contact data

Whether you are switching systems or are a new business with lots of leads, our import tool is a convenient way to upload information and speed up the migration or onboarding process. We also have an export tool so you can download a file containing customer, provider, and lead information that has been stored in your account.

Where to Find the Import Tool
The import tool is associated with two different sections: one can be used to upload customer data, and the other is for uploading provider data. To find it, you will need to go to your main menu and click:
Go to Customers > Customers > Import

Getting Started
To begin the process of importing your information, you will first click the blue ōImportö button at the top of the screen.

Preparing Your File
After making your selection, you will land on the import page.
WeÆd recommend that before you search for your file, please click the ōSample File For Customersö to see all of the fields BookingKoala supports. If you do not already have a file, you may also use this template to create one by adding new rows and filling them out as needed.

Please ensure that regardless of where your file originates, it will need at minimum the three following columns: first name, last name, and email address. These three components are required for all customers and providers. If they are missing from your file, you may not be able to have a successful import.

You will also need to ensure that the extension is .CSV. or If it does not have this extension, you can use your spreadsheet builder to ōSave Asö or export your list in this format. Once these aspects have been verified, you will need to click the ōBrowseö button to select the proper file, and then click the ōNextö button below.

If you would like to connect the customers' payment processor IDs as well, you will need to create a new column in the .CSV file with the heading "Payment Processor ID".

Please note: Make sure to check the ID when copying and pasting it to the corresponding customer. If you connect the wrong ID to the wrong customer account, the card on file could be used by the incorrect owner.

The Import Process
Once youÆve uploaded your file, you will need to match or ōMapö the imported fields with those in BookingKoala. You can map whichever fields of information you would like to be imported.

Some of your fields may be labeled differently than BookingKoalaÆs. For example, BookingKoala has ōzip codeö as a field whereas you may have something like ōzipö or ōpostal codeö. You can map your field with the closest corresponding field in our system. You can also leave most of the BookingKoala fields empty if you do not have those in your file, or if you are not interested in importing that specific information.

Once you have mapped your fields, you will click ōImportö. A green system notification will let you know the import process has begun.

While your file is being imported, you will be brought to the ōImport Historyö section. Here you can view new and past imports and their corresponding details:
Ģ Filename
Ģ Total records within the file
Ģ Total records inserted into your BookingKoala account
Ģ Error count of failed records
Ģ Type of import
Ģ Import creation date and time
Ģ Import Status

To the far right, you will see the importÆs status. While the system is finalizing the import, the label will read ōProcessingö. You can click the orange ōReloadö button to check for an updated status.

New Features
898 Automated synchronization of campaign contacts during import will be based on the campaign contacts limit and audience setup.
Ģ If a merchant has an existing limit for campaign contacts, the imported users will be automatically synced to the campaigns within their defined audience.
Ģ However, if the merchant has reached their limit for synced users, the system will still allow users to be imported, but automatic syncing to campaigns will not occur in this case.
Ģ Additionally, if the merchant has some campaign contact limits remaining but the queued import exceeds that limit, automated syncing will also not function.
Regardless of the campaign contacts limit, the system will always import the users into the main system.

899 Phone (+) is specifically intended for customer imports only. It allows for the inclusion of additional phone numbers based on a revised format. If the additional phone numbers in your file do not comply with BookingKoalaÆs acceptable format, you can enter the corresponding user's additional phone number into the Phone (+) field. This number will then be treated as an additional phone number for your imported record. Please ensure that you check the format of the Phone (+) before using it.
900 Notification Settings Update:
The notification settings have been revised. During the import process, you can now choose whether to enable email and SMS notifications for the users included in your uploaded import file for the BookingKoala system.
Please ensure that the default notification preferences are taken into account based on your selections. There are two options for notification settings: one for email and the other for SMS.
Ģ If you choose to enable email and/or SMS notifications, please make sure that valid email addresses and/or phone numbers are provided for those users. If such contact information is not available, the notification settings will not be activated.
Ģ If you choose not to enable email or SMS notifications for your imported users, then notifications will be disabled for those users according to your preference.

Troubleshooting
Once your import has been completed, you will see a green ōCompleteö status after refreshing. This indicates that all data (or as much as possible) has been imported. Next to this, there is a "Learn More" link.
Ģ When this link is green, it indicates that all data has been fully imported.
Ģ If the link is orange, your import is complete but some information was not able to be imported.
Ģ When the link is red, the import was unsuccessful.

When the icon is orange or red, you can click the link to view a more detailed record of what failed.

There are several possible reasons why user information could not be imported, including:
Ģ Email or phone number field is empty.
Ģ Email or phone number field is not valid.
Ģ Email or phone number already exists in the system.
Ģ Use of special characters in the first or last name.

Any users that could not be imported will be listed in a file you can download so you can look at the original file to add or modify the corresponding entries.

Undo an Upload
If you have accidentally uploaded the wrong file altogether, you can click "Options" and then ōUndo importö to undo the import. This will permanently delete the fileÆs contents from your system.

Send an Invitation to Create a Password
If you would like to invite the people in your file to create an account with your BookingKoala platform, you can click Options then "Send Email".

From here, you can mass email all new imports with the ōNew Accountö email and even include a note for their reference. You can click ōSend Emailö when you are ready, or ōPreviewö to see what the email will look like first.

Please be sure that the "New Account" email template is enabled under the Notifications section. To check, please go to:
Settings > Notifications > Emails > Provider

Click the red ōDisabledö button to re-enable the notification. You can also click the pencil icon to edit the general message for this email as well.

Connect Customer Payment Processor Accounts
In the customer import area, you have the additional option of connecting your customerÆs payment processor account if you have imported their customer ID.

Stripe
You can find a customer's Stripe ID in your by searching their name or email address under the "Customers" section. Click on their account to view their dashboard. The Stripe ID is located in the "Details" section just beneath their email address in the left-side menu. This code will always begin with "cus_".

Paste the Stripe ID into a separate column labeled "Payment Processor ID" in your file. Make sure there are no extra spaces or characters as this may result in a failed import.

Troubleshoot the common errors while uploading/importing the customer/contact data
Please use the following steps to try and identify what issue(s) are causing your file not to upload the contact data properly.

901 Download the Sample file:
It is recommended that you click on the "Sample File For Team" or "Sample File for Individuals" before uploading your file so that you can get a better sense of all the fields that BookingKoala supports. In case you do not already have a .CSV file, you may also download this template and use it to create one by adding new rows and filling them in as needed.
902 Check the format of the file you are uploading/importing:
Ģ If the format of the file is NOT ".CSV" or .XLSX, please save the file in ".CSV" or .XLSX format and then try to upload the file.
Ģ If the format of the file is ".CSV", proceed to the next step.

903 If the file format is ".CSV" or ".XLSX", and you get the below error message:
Ģ This error means that sometimes while uploading the file, the column name has some extra characters like spaces or commas which creates an issue for the system to read the file. If this error appears, it is recommended to re-save the file as a ".CSV" file and then re-try uploading the file.

904 If you still get the error:
Please email your file and the error screenshot tosupport@bookingkoala.com seeking further assistance.



Recurring booking invoice per industry
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/recurring-booking-invoice-per-industry

Recurring booking invoice per industry
Learn how industry-specific invoices work and how to create them.

Last updated on 06 Aug, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How booking invoices can be created with specific and all industries.
Ģ How you can create booking invoices with preferred booking statuses.

Overview
You can effortlessly create booking recurring invoices tailored to specific industries or applicable to all industries. Additionally, you have the flexibility to generate booking invoices with statuses of your choice, including completed, declined, upcoming, or any combination of these options. To further improve clarity and transparency, we have also introduced customizable options for displaying invoice details. You can choose specific parameters that will allow for a detailed breakdown of the booking invoice summary, providing both you and your clients with much greater insight.

Select Industry

Select whether you want to create an invoice with all or specific industries.

Specific Industry

To create invoices with specific industries:

Select the specific option. Select the preferred industries from the options below to select industry, you can also select multiple industries to create combinations of different industries. Once selected click on the Load booking(s) button.

This will display all your recurring schedules of selected industry(s). You can view the bookings of each schedule by clicking on View all option. To create an invoice, check the boxes for the schedules you want to include. You will be able to select a maximum of 5 schedules at a time.

You can click on the Load More button to load more schedules(if any).

Select Booking Status

Now you can select booking statuses for specific industries & for all industries recurring invoices.

Choose the booking status by checking the box for the bookings you want to include in the invoice. For example, if you select the "Completed" status, only completed bookings will be added to the recurring invoice.

Form params

If you are creating a booking invoice, you can select which form parameters and price parameters the customer will view on the invoice by clicking on the plus sign icon next to the Form Parameters section. To add form and price parameters in the booking table click on ōWhat do you want to show in the booking table?ö and check the box next to each parameter to display in the booking table.

Adding parameters in booking invoice summary

To select what parameters you want to show during the booking invoice summary breakdown, click on ōWhat do you want to show in the booking invoice summary?ö and check the box next to each parameter to display the parameter in the booking invoice summary.

Drag and drop booking table and booking summary

To rearrange the parameters added in the booking table, just click and hold the column you wish to move, drag it to your preferred position, and then release the mouse button.

To reorder the booking invoice summary, just click and hold the custom field you want to move, drag it to your desired position, and release the mouse button.

Resize your custom table from the theme builder

To adjust the column sizes on your custom invoice table, simply click and hold the blue border of the column you want to resize. Then, drag it to your preferred width and release the border when you're done.

Introduced Notifications for Skipped Invoices & Ended Recurring Invoice Schedules

WeÆve added new notifications to keep you informed about important updates in your invoicing process.

Ģ Skipped Invoice Notification: Now, in a recurring booking invoice if the system does not find any bookings and skips an invoice, it will send a notification to the admin so that they are aware of the situation.
Ģ Ended Recurring Invoice Schedule Notification: The system will notify the admin in case a recurring booking invoice schedule is ended, either because no bookings were found or due to the cancellation of the recurring booking schedule.

You have to enable the notification template from Settings > Notification > Emails > Admin > Invoice.



Edit Custom Paid Invoice
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/edit-custom-paid-invoice

Edit Custom Paid Invoice
Need to make changes to a paid custom invoice? This article walks you through how to easily edit it, step by step.

Last updated on 06 Aug, 2025

Overview
Ģ With this new feature, you can edit details on a paid custom invoice directly from your dashboard without needing to issue a new invoice. Whether itÆs correcting line items, enhancing the customizations, updating the invoice summary, and many moreŚthis feature gives you the flexibility to keep your financial records accurate and professional, even after payment has been completed.
Ģ This enhancement is designed to streamline post-payment adjustments, reduce friction in your invoicing process, and give you more control over your business documentation.

Edit Paid Custom Invoice
To edit the paid custom invoice, please visit Bookings > Booking Charges > Invoices

Ģ Click on the " View " button to edit the paid custom invoice.
Ģ Click on the pencil icon if you want to edit your paid invoice. Once you click on the button, your invoice will be editable. As soon as you make the changes, you can save them changes by clicking on the Save & continue button .
Ģ If any changes were made, a pop-up will be initiated on Save & continue , which gives you flexibility to select whether you want to send a notification to the customer or not.
Ģ Similarly, if you want your changes to be synced with a third party, then check the checkbox " Sync to third party " given on the popup.
Ģ Finally, by clicking the "Update Invoice" button, you will be able to update your paid invoice.



10. Providers
Articles in this collection (35):

905 Providers and teams overview
906 Add, deactivate or delete a provider or team
907 Using the provider import tool
908 Setting up general provider scheduling permissions
909 Setting up provider general settings & permissions
910 Setting up provider industry settings
911 Setting up provider form settings
912 How providers can update their own settings
913 Setting up provider schedules
914 How to send provider schedules automatically
915 Set up the GPS clock in/out feature
916 Clock in and out with the GPS feature
917 Setting up provider payments
918 Provider checklist access
919 Setting up reimbursements
920 Changing a provider's pay rate
921 Sending out provider payments
922 Pending payments and active bookings messages
923 Fix the "no such destination" error for provider Stripe payouts
924 Enable provider booking features under "Store Options"
925 Enable the provider live chat feature
926 Enable the speed tag
927 Enable provider pairing
928 Using the quick add tool for providers
929 Block a provider from being booked with a specific customer
930 How to export provider data
931 For providers: How to connect your Stripe account
932 Locate the ABA/routing number
933 Enable digital signatures
934 How providers can set their own schedule
935 Enable the "late arrival" message feature
936 For providers: How to connect a PayPal account
937 Provider app overview
938 Provider sign up
939 Divide Provider Length



Providers and teams overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/providers-and-teams-overview

Providers and teams overview
Learn all of the things you and your providers can do with their accounts.

Last updated on 17 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to use each part of the "Providers" section
Ģ How to create, manage, and update provider accounts
Ģ What providers can use their account for
Ģ Setting up and processing provider payments

Provider Overview
Click the links below to view instructions on how to set up the various features discussed in this overview.

Getting Started

Ģ Setting up your store options "Provider" tab : Learn how each setting affects your providers under the store options "Provider" tab.
Ģ Using the Import Tool : Learn how to import providers for faster migration.
Ģ Add, Deactivate or Delete a Provider or Team : Learn how to create provider and team accounts, process account deactivations, and delete accounts if necessary.
Ģ Setting Up General Provider Permissions : Learn how to configure your providers' scheduling and availability rules.
Ģ Setting Up a Provider General Settings & Permissions : Learn to set up how jobs will be assigned to a provider.
Ģ Setting Up Provider Industry Settings : Learn how to control which industries a provider will receive jobs from.
Ģ Setting Up Provider Form Settings : Learn how to control what types of jobs providers receive/accept.
Ģ How Providers Can Update Their Own Settings : Learn how your providers can adjust their settings from their dashboard.

Availability and Scheduling

Ģ Setting Up Provider Schedules : Learn how to set up availability for providers so providers can receive or accept jobs.
Ģ How to Send Provider Schedules Automatically : Learn how to enable sending out your provider's schedules automatically.
Ģ Enable the GPS Clock In/Out Feature : Learn how to set up the GPS clock in/out feature and customize rules for providers, bookings, and time logs.
Ģ Clock In and Out with the GPS Feature : Learn how to clock in and out using the GPS feature in the provider app.

Payments

Ģ Setting Up Provider Payments : Learn how to set up provider pay rates and reimbursements.
Ģ Setting Up Reimbursements : Learn more about how to set up, update, and delete provider reimbursements.
Ģ Changing a Provider's Pay Rate : Learn how to modify provider pay rates and reimbursements.
Ģ Sending Out Provider Payments : Learn how to send out, pause, and resume provider payments and where to locate payment logs.
Ģ Pending Payments and Active Bookings Messages : Learn more about the pending payments and active booking messages and how to resolve them.
Ģ Fix the "No Such Destination" Error for Provider Stripe Payouts : Learn how to fix the "no such destination" error pop-up when you are trying to payout providers with Stripe.

Account Features and Resources

Ģ Log In As a Customer or Provider : Learn how to log in as a provider without logging out of your admin account.
Ģ Enable Provider Booking Features Under "Store Options" : Learn how to customize rules and features that relate to your provider's bookings.
Ģ Enable the Customer and Provider "My Drive" feature : Learn more about the "My Drive" feature and how to enable it for providers.
Ģ Enable the Provider Live Chat Feature : Learn how to enable the live chat feature to send and receive messages from providers in your dashboard.
Ģ Enable the Speed Tag : Learn how the speed tag works and how to enable it for your providers.
Ģ Enable Provider Pairing : Learn how to set up your individual providers to be paired with others on a job-by-job basis.
Ģ Setting Up and Using Checklists : Learn how to create and use checklists for bookings.
Ģ Using the Quick Add Tool for Providers : Learn how to use the quick add tools for setting up provider schedules and settings.
Ģ Block a Provider From Being Booked with a Specific Customer : Learn how to prevent providers/teams from being paired with specific customers.
Ģ How to Export Provider Data : Learn how to export provider information into a .CSV file.



Add, deactivate or delete a provider or team
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-deactivate-or-delete-a-provider-or-team

Add, deactivate or delete a provider or team
Learn how to create, deactivate, and delete individual and team provider accounts.

Last updated on 09 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Create an individual provider account
Ģ Create a team provider account
Ģ Deactivate and reactivate provider accounts
Ģ Remove a provider from a team
Ģ Delete provider accounts

Add a Provider Account
To add a new provider account, first go to: Providers > Providers > Add New

There is also a blue "Add New" button that is located at the top of the Provider's section. Both options lead to the same place.

Once you click the button, a new window will ask what type of provider account you'd like to create. Click the "Add Individual" icon to proceed with creating an individual provider account.

You will be redirected to the "Add Service Provider" page.

You must fill out at least a First Name, Last Name, and Email Address to save a new provider account. You can also include an Address, Phone Number(s), and Gender for the provider.

At the bottom of the screen, there is an option to "Send Invitation". This correlates with the "New Account" email/SMS templates located under: Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Providers > Account

Please be sure this template is toggled to "Enabled" under the Notifications section if you'd like to send a notification inviting your provider to create a password and log into their account.

If you don't want to send the "New Account" notification to your provider now, you can always uncheck this box and send it at a later time from the provider's profile.

Once you are done filling out the provider's basic information, click the blue "Add" button to generate the provider account.

You will be redirected to the provider's Dashboard. A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know the provider account has been saved.

Add a Team Account
If you have a group of providers that works on jobs together, you can create a team of providers. Teams are groups of providers that always work together.

To create a team, you will begin the same way as if creating an individual account. Go to: Providers > Providers > Add New

Once you click this, a new window will ask what type of provider account you'd like to create. Click the "Add Team" icon to proceed with creating a team account.

A pop-up window will appear. Enter the Team Name and chose an icon or image to represent the team. Then click the blue "Next" button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner, letting you know the team account has been generated. You will be redirected to the "Team Members" tab under the team's Dashboard.

Next, you will need to add at least one provider to your team. There are two different options for adding providers.

940 Click the light blue "Add New Team Member" button to create a new team member from scratch.
This will open the same pop-up as if you were adding an individual provider.
Once you have finished filling out their basic information, click the blue "Add" button to add the provider account to the team.
941 Click the green "Add Existing Provider To Team" button if you've already created an individual provider account, and would now like to add it to the team.
After clicking this button, select the blue "Add to Team" button next to the provider(s) you'd like to add to the team. Then click the red "X" icon to close out the pop-up.

You will now see that the individual provider accounts have been added to the team.

Next Steps
Once you've created your provider or team account, the next step is to set up their settings and availability.

Click here to view a guide on how to set up a provider's general settings. This covers how to:
Ģ Allow a provider to set up their schedule
Ģ Allow a provider to set up their settings
Ģ Enable schedule setting/requests for a provider
Ģ Display or hide unassigned jobs
Ģ Turn on/off a provider from being booked by customers
Ģ Turn on/off a provider from being booked for same-day jobs
Ģ Display or hide the customer's payment method
Ģ Display or hide the customer's booking price
Ģ Display or hide the provider's payment amount
Ģ Set a default location for the provider
Ģ Set up travel and non-travel break times

Click here to view a guide on how to set up your provider/team's industry settings. This covers how to:
Ģ Enable/disable your provider to work for specific industries and booking forms within an industry

Click here to view a guide on how to set up a provider/team's form settings. This covers how to:
Ģ Enable/disable multiple booking spots per booking form/industry
Ģ Set your provider's default wage per booking form/industry
Ģ Enable/disable provider pairing for a specific provider
Ģ Enable/disable providers from being booked for different frequencies, service categories, pricing parameters, items, packages, add-ons, and extras
Ģ Enable/disable providers from being worked for certain locations

Click here to learn how to set up your provider's payment settings. This covers:
Ģ How provider payments work in BookingKoala
Ģ Hot to connect your provider payment gateway
Ģ Setting up a default wage for all providers
Ģ Setting up reimbursements for providers

Click here to learn how to set up your provider's schedule and availability. This goes over how to:
Ģ Set up default provider availability
Ģ Set up availability for specific dates
Ģ Close availability for time-off requests

Click here to learn how to block a customer from being paired with a specific provider or team.

Deactivate/Reactivate a Provider/Team Account
Deactivate a Provider/Team Account

If you'd like to deactivate a provider or team account, go to: Providers > Providers

This will bring you to the active Providers section. Click on "Options", "Deactivate" to the right of the account you'd like to deactivate.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to deactivate this provider. You can also check the box next to "Exclude notification from being sent" if you do not want the provider to be notified that you are deactivating your account.

Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed with deactivating the provider's account.

Once completed, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the provider has been deactivated successfully.

Reactivate a Provider/Team Account

If you'd ever like to reactivate a provider profile, go to: Providers > Deactivated

This will bring you to the Deactivated Providers section. Click on "Options", then "Reactivate" to the right of the account you'd like to reactivate.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to reactivate this provider. You can also check the box next to "Exclude notification from being sent" if you do not want the provider to be notified that you are reactivating your account.

Once completed, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the provider has been reactivated successfully.

Remove a Provider from a Team
If you'd like to remove a provider from a team but still retain their information as an individual provider account, you must first ensure that all bookings have been removed from that team (temporarily).

Next, go to: Providers > Providers > [Team Name]

Click on the "Team Members" tab at the top of the page.

If the provider you are removing is a Team Lead, you will need to click the orange "Make Team Lead" link for another provider in that team.

Next, click "Options", "Delete" next to the team member you would like to remove.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to remove this provider from the team. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the provider has been removed successfully.

If you navigate back to the Providers section, you will now see their profile listed as an individual account.

Delete a Provider/Team Account
To permanently delete a provider or team account, you must first deactivate it. Then, go to: Providers > Deactivated

This will bring you to the Deactivated Providers section. Click on "Options", "Delete" to the right of the account you'd like to delete.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you are ready to delete this provider. Only click the blue "Yes" button if you are sure you are never going to use this provider account again.

Once completed, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the provider has been deleted successfully.



Using the provider import tool
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/using-the-import-tool

Using the provider import tool
Learn how to import provider information for faster migration and onboarding.

Last updated on 03 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you: 
Ģ Locate the import tool in the system
Ģ Create and upload information from a .CSV file
Ģ Undo an import
Ģ Send an invitation to create a password for newly imported contacts
Ģ Connect customer payment processor accounts using the import tool
Ģ Troubleshoot the common errors while uploading/importing the customer/contact data

Whether you are switching systems or are a new business with lots of leads, our import tool is a convenient way to upload information and speed up the migration or onboarding process. We also have an export tool so you can download a file containing customer, provider, and lead information that has been stored in your account.

Where to Find the Import Tool
The import tool is associated with two different sections: one can be used to upload customer data, and the other is for uploading provider data. To find it, you will need to go to your main menu and click:

Providers > Providers > Actions > Import

Getting Started
To begin the process of importing your information, you will first select the ōImportö option from the Actions menu. In the provider's import section, there are two different options based on whether you want to upload individuals or teams.  

Depending on your business, youÆll select either ōIndividualö or ōTeamö. Please keep in mind that you can import as many files as you need to, so if you work with a combination of individuals and teams, you can use a separate sheet for each option. For this example, we will reference the import team option.

Preparing Your File
After making your selection, you will land on the import page.

WeÆd recommend that before you search for your file, please click the ōSample File For Teamö or "Sample File for Individual" to see all of the fields BookingKoala supports. If you do not already have a file, you may also use this template to create one by adding new rows and filling them out as needed.  

Please ensure that regardless of where your file originates, it will need at minimum the following columns: first name, last name, and email address. If you are importing teams, the team name is required as well.  If they are missing from your file, you may not be able to successfully import them. 

You will also need to ensure that the extension is .CSV or .XLSX.  If it does not have this extension, you can use your spreadsheet builder to ōSave Asö or export your list in this format. Once these aspects have been verified, you will need to click the file upload area to select the proper file, and then click the ōNextö button below. 

If you would like to connect the payment processor IDs as well, you will need to create a new column in the .CSV file with the heading "Payment Processor ID".

Please note: Make sure to check the ID when copying and pasting it to the corresponding customer. If you connect the wrong ID to the wrong customer account, the card on file could be used by the incorrect owner.  

The Import Process
Once youÆve uploaded your file, you will need to match or ōMapö the imported fields with those in BookingKoala. You can drag and drop whichever fields of information you would like to be imported.

Some of your fields may be labeled differently than BookingKoalaÆs. For example, BookingKoala has ōzip codeö as a field whereas you may have something like ōzipö or ōpostal codeö. You can map your field with the closest corresponding field in our system. You can also leave most of the BookingKoala fields empty if you do not have those in your file, or if you are not interested in importing that specific information.  

Once you have mapped your fields, you will click ōImportö. A green system notification will let you know the import process has begun.

While your file is being imported, you will be brought to the ōImport Historyö section.  Here you can view new and past imports and their corresponding details:
Ģ Filename
Ģ Total records within the file
Ģ Total records inserted into your BookingKoala account
Ģ Error count of failed records
Ģ Type of import
Ģ Import creation date and time
Ģ Import Status

To the far right, you will see the importÆs status.  While the system is finalizing the import, the label will read ōProcessingö. You can click the orange ōReloadö button to check for an updated status.

New Features
942 Automated synchronization of campaign contacts during import will be based on the campaign contacts limit and audience setup.

Ģ If a merchant has an existing limit for campaign contacts, the imported users will be automatically synced to the campaigns within their defined audience. 
Ģ However, if the merchant has reached their limit for synced users, the system will still allow users to be imported, but automatic syncing to campaigns will not occur in this case. 
Ģ Additionally, if the merchant has some campaign contact limits remaining but the queued import exceeds that limit, automated syncing will also not function.
Regardless of the campaign contacts limit, the system will always import the users into the main system.

943 Phone (+)  is specifically intended for customer imports only. It allows for the inclusion of additional phone numbers based on a revised format. If the additional phone numbers in your file do not comply with BookingKoalaÆs acceptable format, you can enter the corresponding user's additional phone number into the Phone (+) field. This number will then be treated as an additional phone number for your imported record. Please ensure that you check the format of the Phone (+) before using it.
944 Notification Settings Update:
The notification settings have been revised. During the import process, you can now choose whether to enable email and SMS notifications for the users included in your uploaded import file for the BookingKoala system.
Please ensure that the default notification preferences are taken into account based on your selections. There are two options for notification settings: one for email and the other for SMS.

Ģ If you choose to enable email and/or SMS notifications, please make sure that valid email addresses and/or phone numbers are provided for those users. If such contact information is not available, the notification settings will not be activated.
Ģ If you choose not to enable email or SMS notifications for your imported users, then notifications will be disabled for those users according to your preference.

Troubleshooting
Once your import has been completed, you will see a green ōCompleteö status after refreshing. This indicates that all data (or as much as possible) has been imported. Next to this, there is a "Learn More" link.
Ģ When this link is green, it indicates that all data has been fully imported.
Ģ If the link is orange, your import is complete but some information was not able to be imported.
Ģ When the link is red, the import was unsuccessful.

When the link is orange or red, you can click the triangle icon to view a more detailed record of what failed.

There are several possible reasons why user information could not be imported, including:
Ģ The first name, last name, and/or email fields are empty
Ģ Incompatible ōspecial charactersö (like #, $, %, etc.) have been used in the name, email, or phone fields
Ģ The email or phone number already exists in the system.

Any users that could not be imported will be listed in a file you can download so you can look at the original file to add or modify the corresponding entries. 

Undo an Upload
If you have accidentally uploaded the wrong file altogether, you can click "Options" and then ōUndo importö to undo the import. This will permanently delete the fileÆs contents from your system.  

The Undo feature is intended to remove users from the system. Its behavior varies depending on whether the users were synced to campaigns during the import process.

945 If users are successfully synced to campaign contacts during import, the Undo action will prompt for confirmation regarding the removal of users from campaign contacts.
Ģ If you choose to undo from campaigns, it will remove the users from both the main system and the campaigns. 
Ģ On the other hand, if you do not select the option to undo campaigns, it will only remove the users from the main system, and the campaigns will still retain the users' data.

946 If users were not synced to campaign contacts during import, the Undo action will delete the users from the main system without requiring additional confirmation

Send an Invitation to Create a Password
If you would like to invite the people in your file to create an account with your BookingKoala platform, you can click Options then "Send Email". 

From here, you can mass email all new imports with the ōNew Accountö email and even include a note for their reference. You can click ōSend Emailö when you are ready, or ōPreviewö to see what the email will look like first.  

Please be sure that the "New Account" email template is enabled under the Notifications section. To check, please go to: 
Settings > Notifications > Emails > Provider

Click the red ōDisabledö button to re-enable the notification. You can also click the pencil icon to edit the general message for this email as well.  

Connect Customer Payment Processor Accounts
In the customer import area, you have the additional option of connecting your customerÆs payment processor account if you have imported their customer ID.  

Stripe
You can find a customer's Stripe ID in your by searching their name or email address under the "Customers" section. Click on their account to view their dashboard.  The Stripe ID is located in the "Details" section just beneath their email address in the left-side menu. This code will always begin with "cus_".

Paste the Stripe ID into a separate column labeled "Stripe ID" in your .CSV file. Make sure there are no extra spaces or characters as this may result in a failed import.

Troubleshoot the common errors while uploading/importing the customer/contact data
Please use the following steps to try and identify what issue(s) are causing your file not to upload the contact data properly.

947 Download the Sample file: 
It is recommended that you click on the "Sample File For Team" or "Sample File for Individuals" before uploading your file so that you can get a better sense of all the fields that BookingKoala supports. In case you do not already have a .CSV file, you may also download this template and use it to create one by adding new rows and filling them in as needed.
948 Check the format of the file you are uploading/importing:
Ģ If the format of the file is NOT ".CSV" or .XLSX, please save the file in ".CSV" or .XLSX format and then try to upload the file.
Ģ If the format of the file is ".CSV", proceed to the next step.

949 If the file format is ".CSV" or ".XLSX", and you get the below error message:
This error means that sometimes while uploading the file, the column name has some extra characters like spaces or commas which creates an issue for the system to read the file. If this error appears, it is recommended to re-save the file as a ".CSV" file and then re-try uploading the file.
950 If you still get the error: 
Please email your file and the error screenshot tosupport@bookingkoala.com if seeking further assistance.



Setting up general provider scheduling permissions
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-scheduling-under-store-options-provider-tab

Setting up general provider scheduling permissions
Learn how to configure your provider's scheduling and availability rules in the provider "Scheduling" store options.

Last updated on 03 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Permit providers to edit their schedules
Ģ Permit providers to edit their settings
Ģ Permit providers to see customer ratings and reviews
Ģ Allow providers to view the customer's phone number
Ģ Allow providers to view the customer's email address
Ģ Allow providers to view the customer's name and profile picture
Ģ Enable provider pairing
Ģ Enable provider availability per location
Ģ Set a default schedule for new providers

Scheduling Settings
This section contains options for allowing providers to edit their schedules and availability. To set up the "Scheduling" section under your Provider Store Options go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Scheduling" section.

Would you like to allow your providers the ability to set and modify their own schedules?
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow providers to set and modify their own schedules.
Ģ Select "No" so all schedule changes must be made by the admin or staff.

What will happen if there are active booking(s) in the date range when providers try to modify or take a day off?

Select one of the following options:
Ģ Move bookings to the unassigned folder, apply changes and notify the admin
? This option will automatically move any of the bookings impacted by the time-off request into the unassigned folder and send a notification to the admin.
Ģ Send a request to admin for approval
? This option will send a request to the "Manage Availability" section under the "Providers" tab for admin/staff to approve.
Ģ Don't move the booking to the unassigned folder and apply changes, active booking will stay assigned to provider and will show NA (Not Available) tag, Notify admin for updates
? This option will update the provider's availability but keep the booking assigned to them as "NA", or "Not Available" and send the admin a notification.

Would you like to include a tutorial video to help your providers with this section?

Ģ Select "Yes" to share your own link or use the BookingKoala default video on how providers can modify their schedules.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the tutorial video from their dashboard.

Would you like to allow the providers the ability to set and modify their own settings?
Ģ Select "Yes" to customize which types of settings providers are allowed to modify.
Ģ Select "No" to block providers from making any changes to their settings. All settings must be configured by an admin or staff member.

Do the providers need to leave a reason when making a modification to their settings?

Ģ Select "Yes" to make it mandatory for providers to provide a comment as to why they are modifying their settings.
Ģ Select "No" to make providing a reason optional.

Would you like to make it mandatory for you to approve the settings request?

Ģ Select "Yes" to make admin approval mandatory for the settings update to take effect.
Ģ Select "No" so the admin does not need to approve the request for the settings update to take effect.

If you selected "No" to the previous question, decide what will happen if there are active bookings that are affected by the provider's setting modification.

Ģ Move booking(s) to the unassigned folder and apply changes
? The system will automatically move any impacted bookings to the unassigned folder.
Ģ Don't move booking(s) to the unassigned folder and apply changes, active booking(s) will stay assigned to the provider and will show NA (Not Available) tag
? The system will apply the setting updates but assign the booking to the provider as "NA", or "Not Available".

Which settings would you like to allow your providers the ability to update?

Select which settings you would like providers to be able to edit by checking the box next to the setting name.

Would you like to include a tutorial video to help your providers with this section?

Ģ Select "Yes" to share your own link or use the BookingKoala default video on how providers can modify their settings.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the tutorial video from their dashboard.

Would you like to allow your providers the ability to see their own ratings?
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow providers to see how they've been rated by clients.
Ģ Select "No" so providers cannot see any ratings left by their customers.

Would you like to allow your providers to see the reviews customers leave?
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow providers to see the written feedback left by their customers.
Ģ Select "No" to block providers from seeing reviews.

Would you like to allow your providers to see the customer's email address in the booking?
Ģ Select "Yes" to let providers view the customer's email address under certain circumstances.
? Check the box next to "Hide on unassigned bookings?" to hide the customer's email address when the booking has not yet been assigned to a provider.
? Check the box next to "Hide on completed bookings?" to hide the customer's email address once the booking has been completed.
Ģ Select "No" to always hide the customer's email address from providers.

Would you like to allow your providers to see the customer's phone number in the booking?
Ģ Select "Yes" to let providers view the customer's phone number under certain circumstances.
? Check the box next to "Hide on unassigned bookings?" to hide the customer's phone number when the booking has not yet been assigned to a provider.
? Check the box next to "Hide on completed bookings?" to hide the customer's phone number once the booking has been completed.
Ģ Select "No" to always hide the customer's phone number from providers.

Would you like to allow your providers to see the customer's name and photo?
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow providers to see some or all of the customer's information.
? Check the boxes next to each piece of information you would like the provider to see.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the customer's name and image from your providers.

Would you like to enable provider pairing?
Ģ Select "Yes" to enabled provider pairing. "Provider pairing" means two or more individual providers can be paired together on a booking-by-booking basis. Pairs differ from "Teams", which contain two or more providers that work together for all of their bookings.
Ģ Select "No" to disable provider pairing. Only teams or an individual provider can be assigned to each booking.

Check the box next to "Override the individual provider settings and allow all for pairing" to enable pairing for all providers.

You can enable provider pairing per booking form type and industry by going to your provider's dashboard and clicking on:

Settings > Forms > [Industry Name] > [Form #]

Under "Can this individual be combined with other providers (pairs)?", select "Yes", then click the blue "Save" button.

Would you like to have the job length divided among the number of providers per booking or would you like it to not change?
This setting has to do with the job length if you have hourly appointments or assigned time lengths to your pricing parameters. If you have assigned more than one provider to a booking, decide if you would like the system to divide the job length by the number of providers.

Ģ By selecting "Yes", your job's length will be divided by the number of providers assigned.
? For example, if a customer books 5 hours of service and two providers are assigned to the job, the updated job length will be 2.5 hours total. This is because each provider conducts 2.5 hours of work starting at the same time, resulting in 5 hours of work performed over 2.5 hours.
? You may prefer this option if you charge for your services per hour per person.
Ģ If you select "No", the job's length will not be impacted by the number of providers assigned.
? For example, if a customer books a 10-hour service and you assign two providers, the job length will still display as "10 hours".

How do you want to manage provider availability and schedule?
This option allows you to set up different schedules for your providers for each separate location you service, or set up one schedule that applies to all locations.

Ģ Select "Per Location" to enable separate schedules and booking spots per location.
Ģ Select "All Locations" to set up booking spots and provider schedules for all locations.

To learn more about how to set up booking spots for each of your locations, click here.

Would you like the system to automatically set up a new provider's schedule or leave it blank?
Ģ Select "Pick Custom" to set up default availability for all newly-created provider accounts.
? To set up the default schedule for your new providers, check the box next to the day of the week. Then select the start and end times for the working hours. Finally, select a frequency for that day.
? For example, if you select "Monday", "9 AM" to "5 PM", "Every two weeks", availability would be added for:
Ģ Monday, 2/2/2022, 9 AM - 5 PM
Ģ Monday, 2/16/2022, 9 AM - 5 PM
Ģ Monday, 3/2/2022, 9 AM - 5 PM, etc.
Ģ Select "Not Set" to leave the new provider's availability empty until you or the provider modifies it.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Setting up provider general settings & permissions
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-a-provider-team-s-general-settings

Setting up provider general settings & permissions
Learn how to control what types of jobs providers can receive and accept under the "General" settings tab.

Last updated on 17 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to do the following actions under a provider's general settings:
Ģ Allow a provider to set up their schedule
Ģ Allow a provider to set up their settings
Ģ Enable schedule setting/requests for a provider
Ģ Display or hide unassigned jobs
Ģ Turn on/off a provider from being booked by customers
Ģ Turn on/off a provider from being booked for same-day jobs
Ģ Display or hide the customer's payment method
Ģ Display or hide the customer's booking price
Ģ Display or hide the provider's payment amount
Ģ Set a default location for the provider
Ģ Set up travel and non-travel break times

Setting Up Provider Settings
If you have multiple industries, services, and/or locations, your providers likely have different preferences for where they work and what types of jobs they can do.

To better control which jobs are unassigned to your providers, you can go to the Settings section under the provider's dashboard. To find this, go to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Click on the " Settings " tab at the top of the screen.

There are four sections under the settings section: General , Industry , Forms , and Block Customer .

This article will go over all the options found under the General provider settings section.

To view guides on the other sections, click the links below:
Ģ Setting Up a Provider/Team's Industry Settings
Ģ Setting Up a Provider/Team's Form Settings
Ģ Block a Customer from a Specific Provider

General Provider Settings
Can this provider/team set their own schedule?
Ģ Select " Yes " to allow this provider/team to set their own schedule, either automatically or via admin approval.
Ģ Select " No " to make all provider schedule changes on the staff/admin end.

Who can set their own schedule? (for teams only)
Ģ Select " Team Leader " to only allow the designated team leader to make changes to the team's schedule.
Ģ Select " Everyone (individually) " to allow all team members to make schedule changes.

Can this provider/team set their own settings?
Ģ Select " Yes " to allow providers to modify their settings, either automatically or via admin approval.
Ģ Select " No " to make all provider setting changes on the staff/admin end.

Who can set their own settings? (for teams only)
Ģ Select " Team Leader " to only allow the designated team leader to make changes to the team's settings.
Ģ Select " Everyone (individually) " to allow all team members to make setting changes.

If you selected " Yes " to either of the previous two questions, you will also see this option:

Does the merchant have to approve the request?
Ģ Select " Yes " for all provider schedule/setting changes to be submitted as a request
Ģ Select " No " to allow all provider schedule/setting changes to be updated automatically.

Show unassigned jobs to the provider/teams?
Ģ Select " Yes " to allow this provider/team to see and pick up unassigned jobs from the Unassigned Folder. Click here to learn more about how the unassigned folder works.
Ģ Select " No " to hide the Unassigned Folder from this provider's dashboard.

Turn off this provider or team from being booked by any customer but can be booked by admin/staff only?
Ģ Select " Yes " to turn OFF the provider from being booked by customers. This means that the provider will not display at all for customers when they are checking availability.
? For example, if you only have one provider and they have this setting enabled, your booking form will show no open spots.
Ģ Select " No " to allow customers to schedule this provider for services.

Turn off this provider or team from being booked for same-day jobs?
Ģ Select " Yes " to turn OFF the provider/team from being booked for all same-day jobs.
Ģ Select " No" to allow this provider/team to receive same-day bookings (if you allow customers to do so).

Do you want to show the payment method to this provider/team?
Ģ Select " Yes " to show some or all payment types to the customer. This means they will be able to see if the customer is paying with a credit/debit card or paying with cash/check.
Ģ Select " No " to hide the payment method from the provider. They will not be able to see how the customer is making payment for their service.

If you selected " Yes " to this question, select which payment methods you would like the provider to see:
Ģ Show only for cash/check - The provider will only see the payment method if it is "cash/check". Otherwise, they will not see anything.
Ģ Both (cash/check or credit/debit card) - The provider will be able to see both "cash/check" and "credit/debit card" type payments on the booking.

If this is a team of providers, select whether you want just the team leader or all team members to be able to see the payment method.
Ģ Team Leader - Only the team leader can see the payment method
Ģ Everyone (Individually) - All team members will be able to see the payment method.

Do you want to show the booking price to this provider/team?
Ģ Select " Yes " to show the customer's booking price to the provider. This means they will be able to see what the customer is paying your business for the service.
Ģ Select " No " to hide the booking price from the provider. They will not be able to see how much the customer is paying.

If you selected " Yes " to this question, select which circumstances in which you would like the provider to see the booking price:
Ģ Show only for cash/check - The provider will only see the booking price if it is "cash/check". Otherwise, they will not see the booking price at all.
Ģ Both (cash/check or credit/debit card) - The provider will be able to see the booking price for both "cash/check" and "credit/debit card" type bookings.

Would you like to hide the provider's payment(s) from your provider/team?
Ģ Select " Yes " to customize which types of payment the provider will be able to see.
? Check the box next to the field you would like to HIDE from the provider.
? The options are:
Ģ Provider payment
Ģ Tip
Ģ Parking
Ģ Bonus
Ģ Service Fee
Ģ Reimbursements
Ģ Total Pay
Ģ Select " No (show all )" to show the provider any/all of the applicable payment types above.

Which location is the default location for this provider/team? Click the " Select Location " drop-down menu to select which location to set as the " default " for your provider.

This will set the default location on the provider's dashboard to that location when viewing bookings on their dashboard and checking their schedule.

Break Time

If you have set up travel time breaks for your providers, you can customize those breaks for each provider or team in this section.
Ģ Set a Travel Time Break by entering the hours and minutes into the boxes below.
? A " travel time break " identities if a provider is traveling to a different location and inserts a "buffer" of time after that first job. This buffer prevents customers from booking appointments too close together, especially if they are not in the same location.
Ģ You can also set up a Non-Travel Time Break.
? A " non-travel time break " identifies if a provider's next job is in the same location as the previous job, and then inserts a buffer after the first job. This is optional but can be used to set a shorter break after an appointment if the following booking is in the same area.

Click here to learn how to enable travel and non-travel time breaks for your providers.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your provider's settings.



Setting up provider industry settings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-a-provider-team-s-industry-settings

Setting up provider industry settings
Learn how to control what types of jobs providers can receive and accept under the "Industry" settings tab.

Last updated on 17 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how:
Ģ Enable/disable your provider to work for specific industries and booking forms within an industry

Setting Up Provider Settings
If you have multiple industries, services, and/or locations, your providers likely have different preferences for where they work and what types of jobs they can do.

To better control which jobs are unassigned to your providers, you can go to the Settings section under the provider's dashboard. To find this, go to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Click on the "Settings" tab at the top of the screen.

There are four sections under the settings section: General, Industry, Forms, and Block Customer.

This article will go over all the options found under the Industry provider settings section.

To view guides on the other sections, click the links below:
Ģ Setting up a Provider/Team's General Settings
Ģ Setting Up a Provider/Team's Form Settings
Ģ Block a Customer from a Specific Provider

Enable/Disable Industries and Booking Forms for a Provider
To enable/disable an industry for a provider, check/uncheck the box next to the industry name, and then check/uncheck the box(es) next to the forms you would like them to receive bookings for.

Then, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know that the provider's settings have been updated.



Setting up provider form settings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-a-provider-team-s-form-settings

Setting up provider form settings
Learn how to control what types of jobs providers can receive and accept under the "Forms" settings tab.

Last updated on 13 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Enable/disable multiple booking spots per booking form/industry
Ģ Set your provider's default wage per booking form/industry
Ģ Enable/disable provider pairing for a specific provider
Ģ Enable/disable providers from being booked for different frequencies, service categories, pricing parameters, items, packages, add-ons, and extras
Ģ Enable/disable providers from being worked for certain locations

Setting Up Provider Settings
If you have multiple industries, services, and locations, your providers likely have different preferences for where they work and what types of jobs they can do.

You can go to the Settings section under the provider's dashboard to better control which jobs are unassigned to your providers. To find this, go to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Click on the " Settings " tab at the top of the screen.

There are four sections under the settings section: General , Industry , Forms , and Block Customer .

This article will go over all the options found under the Forms provider settings section.

To view guides on the other sections, click the links below:
Ģ Setting up a Provider/Team's General Settings
Ģ Setting Up a Provider/Team's Industry Settings
Ģ Block a Customer from a Specific Provider

Form Provider Settings
All of your industries and booking form details will be listed in tabs at the top of this section. Click the name in the tab to switch between industries or forms.

Team Settings
Who will see the jobs? The first team setting asks who is allowed to see the job details. If you select " Team Leader ", the other team members will see a message saying, "You are not allowed to see the booking details" when they try to view the job details. If you would like team members to all see the details, please select " Everyone (individually) ".

Who can accept or decline the job? If you have selected " Everyone (individually) " for the previous question, you can also decide if just the team leader can accept or decline jobs, or if everyone (Individually) can. If you select everyone individually, one person can accept or decline bookings on behalf of the team. If one person accepts the job, it is added to the team's schedule. No other team member can take the job if one person declines the job.

Who will receive payments? For teams, you can decide if only the team leader receives payment or if each team member does. Once you enter the team member's payment amount, click the grey " Update " button.

Other Settings
Turn on Multiple Appointments If you've enabled multispot scheduling or multiple appointments per booking spot, you will see the question " Turn on multiple appointments? " at the top of this section.
Ģ Select " Per booking spot " to allow customers to book the same spot more than once.
Ģ Select " Off " to turn off multispot booking for this booking form. This means customers can only schedule one appointment per booking spot.

Wages Under the Wages section, you can set the provider's default payment amount for this booking form.

Provider Pairing You can control whether a provider can be "paired" with other providers for a specific booking form and industry by selecting an answer to " Can this individual be combined with other providers (pairs)? "
Ģ Select " Yes " to enabled provider pairing. " Provider pairing " means two or more individual providers can be paired together on a booking-by-booking basis. Pairs differ from " Teams" , which contain two or more providers that work together for all of their bookings.
Ģ Select " No " to disable provider pairing. Only teams or an individual provider can be assigned to each booking.

Select Frequency/Service Category/Pricing Parameters/Extras/Etc. To enable or disable a provider from receiving jobs that have a specific frequency , service category , pricing parameter , exclude parameter , item , package , add-on , or extra , simply uncheck the box next to that parameter.

You can use this option to customize the types of jobs that providers will display as "available".

When a box is unchecked , the provider will NOT display under the " Available or Not Available list, and instead will be listed under the " Check Compatability " section.

For example, this provider has been excluded from servicing homes that have more than 4000 square feet.

Once the settings have been saved, the provider will not display as an option for homes when this option has been selected.

Add Locations To enable your provider to work in a specific location, scroll to the bottom of the section under you see the " Add Locations " section.

By default, your provider will be enabled for all new locations as you add them.

Check/uncheck the box next to the location name to enable/disable it.

If the location is a service area , click the blue " View Zip/Postal Codes " link to view which areas within that location are enabled.

Check/uncheck the boxes next to each zip code or place name within this section to enable or disable it.

Click the blue " Save " button to update the service area. A green system notification

Then, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page to update the general setting changes.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes in ANY of these sections, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your provider's settings.



How providers can update their own settings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-providers-can-control-their-own-settings

The purpose of this article is to:

Ģ Learn where the admin can enable permission for your providers to edit their own settings
Ģ Show how providers can update their settings from their dashboard

Admin: Enable Permissions for Providers to Update Settings
If you would like your providers to be able to make changes to which types of jobs they can be booked for, you can enable permission for them to update their settings. Once enabled, you can decide whether an admin will need to approve the request or if the changes will be updated automatically.

To set this up, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Then, click the plus sign icon to expand the " Scheduling " section.

Image

Scroll down until you see the question, " Would you like to allow the providers the ability to set and modify their own settings? "

Ģ Select " Yes " to allow providers to update their settings.
Ģ Select " No " to block providers from making any changes to their settings. All settings must be configured by an admin or staff member.

Next, select an answer for, " Do the providers need to leave a reason when making a modification to their settings? "

Ģ Select " Yes " to make it mandatory for providers to provide a note as to why they are modifying their settings.
Ģ Select " No " to make providing a reason optional.

To control whether an admin must approve the request in order for the update to take place, select on option beneath, " Would you like to make it mandatory for you to approve the settings request?"

Ģ Select " Yes " to make admin approval mandatory for the settings update to take effect.
Ģ Select " No " so the admin does not need to approve the request for the settings update to take effect.

If you selected " No " to the previous question, decide what will happen if there are active bookings that are affected by the provider's setting modification.

Ģ Move booking(s) to the unassigned folder and apply changes - The system will automatically move any impacted bookings to the unassigned folder.
Ģ Don't move booking(s) to the unassigned folder and apply changes, active booking(s) will stay assigned to the provider and will show NA (Not Available) tag - The system will apply the setting updates but assign the booking to the provider as " NA ", or " Not Available ".

Next, decide which settings you would like to allow your providers to change. Beneath " Which settings would you like to allow your providers the ability to update? ", select which settings you would like providers to be able to edit by checking the boxes next to the setting name.

Image

If you would like to include a tutorial video to help your providers with this section, select " Yes " to " Would you like to include a tutorial video to help your providers with this section? "

You can share your own link or use the BookingKoala default video on how providers can modify their settings.

Image

Select " No " to hide the tutorial video from their dashboard.  Then, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of this page.

Now that your settings have been updated, providers will now have the ability to change or request to change their settings.

Updating Settings from the Provider Dashboard/App
Once you log in, click the " Settings " section on the left-hand menu.

Image

There are two tabs in the Settings section: Industry and Forms .

Image

Industry Settings

By default, you will be directed to the Industry tab. This section allows you to control which industries and booking forms you can accept work in.  To enable an industry, check the box next to the industry's name. Then, check the boxes next to the form numbers. Uncheck the boxes to disable a form and industry from their settings.

Image

Then, click the blue " Save " button to update the settings.  If the admin has required a reason to be submitted along with the settings change, a " Reason " box will pop up where you can enter comments.  Then, click the blue " Submit " button to submit the settings update.

Image

If the admin has set up setting requests, the update will be submitted in the form of a request to the staff for approval. From here, they can accept or decline the update.

If the admin has allowed automatic setting updates to take place, your provider settings will be updated without any further action required from the admin end.

Form Settings

The other tab located under the provider's " Settings " section is called " Forms ". This tab controls more specific job settings within each form and industry.

Image

Each industry and booking form will have a separate tab so that you can configure settings differently.  Click on the Industry Name and the Form [#] to view the settings for that specific form.

Image

The settings that you are allowed to control are based on what the admin has enabled under their Store Options section. These are all of the possible options:

Image

This will translate to different options in the provider's setting section.

Image

To enable a setting, check the box next to its name.  To disable it, uncheck the box.

Image

Once you are finished making updates to a specific form, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page before navigating to another form.

Image

Quick-Add Tool

There is also a quick-add tool that can be used to easily update one or more settings across all forms and industries.  This is located at the top right corner of the screen.

Image

Once you click the blue " Quick Add " button, a " Quick Add Settings " pop-up will appear.

Image

Check the box next to the setting you want to update, then check or uncheck the boxes beneath that setting. If you do not check a box next to the primary setting, that setting will not be updated.

Image

Once you have made your selections, click the blue " Add " button.



Setting up provider schedules
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-provider-team-schedules-and-settings

Setting up provider schedules
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-provider-team-schedules-and-settings

Learn how to set up availability for providers so providers can receive or accept jobs.

Last updated on 14 Dec, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to: 
Ģ Set up default provider availability
Ģ Set up availability for specific dates
Ģ Close availability for time-off requests

Setting Up Provider Schedules
If your scheduling is based on provider availability (click here to learn how to set up your scheduling settings to be based on provider availability), you must have at least one available provider so your booking spots will display (click here to learn how to set up your booking spots).  

To set up provider availability, you must have first added a provider to your Provider section. Click here to learn how to create a new provider account.  

To set up availability for a specific provider, you can go to: Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Click on the "Schedule" tab at the top of the page. This is why you can manage and update their availability.  

You can also manage your provider availability all from one page by going to: Providers > Manage Availability

Both areas include the same functionality, allowing you to set up default availability, edit availability for specific dates and times, and put in time-off requests. 

Setting Up Default Availability
If you'd like to set up default availability for ALL newly added providers, click here to update your Provider Store Options.

Please note: All new providers are automatically given a schedule of Sunday-Saturday, 8:00 AM to 8:00 PM.

If you'd like to set up or change the default availability for a specific provider, go to their "Schedule" tab and click on the "Change Availability" button, then select "Default Availability".  

A pop-up window will appear displaying each day of the week. Click the blue "Add Shift" button to add a new shift to the day of the week.  

Once you've added a shift, you can click the "Location" button (if you have multiple locations) to select which location(s) this shift will be added for, then click "Apply".  

If you'd like to copy the shift to other days of the week, click the "Apply to..." button and check the boxes next to the days of the week you'd like to have this shift. Click the "Apply" button to copy the shift to the other day(s).  

If you would like to edit a shift length, simply click on the hour and minute boxes to adjust the time.  

To delete a shift, click the red X icon.  

Once you are done setting up the shifts, there are two options for applying the changes if there are jobs affected by the shift changes.  

Ģ Click the blue "Apply changes and mark bookings as unassigned" button if you'd like to remove bookings for any shifts that have been removed by this update and place them into the unassigned folder automatically.
Ģ Click the blue "Apply changes, keep assigned with the provider, and mark booking with 'NA' tag" button if you would like to keep any bookings that have been assigned during these shifts, even if the shift has been removed. If you select this option, a red "NA" tag ("Not available") will be added to the booking to let you know it is assigned out of regular working hours.

If there are no bookings affected, you will see a green "Apply" button instead.  

Once you selected one of these options, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the screen, letting you know the provider's availability has been updated successfully.  

Editing Availability for Specific Date(s)
If you would like to change the provider's availability for a specific date, go to their "Schedule" tab and click on the "Change Availability" button, then select "Specific Date".  

A pop-up window will appear, displaying options to select the Start Date and End Date.

Once you've selected the dates, you will see a section for each date in the window below. If a shift exists, the start and end times will be displayed. If there is no shift for the date, it will read "Off".  

If you'd like to add a shift, click the blue "Add Shift" button and then enter the start and end times.  

To delete a shift from a specific date, click the red X icon next to the working hours.  

Use the "Location" button to select which location(s) the shifts will be added for.  

If bookings are assigned to any of the dates, they will be displayed in the bottom section of the pop-up. You can click the customer name to open the customer's profile or click the edit icon to open the bookings.

Once you are done making your modifications, you have three options if there are bookings affected by the shift changes.  

Ģ Click the blue "Apply changes and mark bookings as unassigned" button if you'd like to remove bookings for any shifts that have been removed by this update and place them into the unassigned folder automatically.
Ģ Click the blue "Apply changes, keep assigned with the provider, and mark booking with 'NA' tag" button if you would like to keep any bookings that have been assigned during these shifts, even if the shift has been removed. If you select this option, a red "NA" tag ("Not available") will be added to the booking to let you know it is assigned out of regular working hours.  
Ģ Click the grey "Reset to default availability" to restore the default availability and disregard any changes you made in this pop-up window.

If there are no bookings affected, you will see a green "Apply" button instead.  

Once you selected one of these options, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the screen, letting you know the provider's availability has been updated successfully.  

Closing Availability for Time Off Requests
If your provider would like to take time off or close down their availability for a specific date(s), go to their "Schedule" tab and click on the "Change Availability" button, then select "Request Time Off".  

A pop-up window will appear, displaying options to select the Start Date and End Date for the time-off request. 

Next, select the Location(s) that will be affected by the time-off request.  

If you'd like, you can enter a Note that will be seen by the admin, staff, and provider on their schedule when viewing these dates in BookingKoala.

If bookings are assigned on any of these dates, they will be displayed in the bottom section of the pop-up. You can click the customer name to open the customer's profile or click the edit icon to open the bookings.

Once you have made your selections, select one of the options to update your provider's schedule.

Ģ Click the blue "Apply changes and mark bookings as unassigned" button if you'd like to remove bookings for any shifts that have been removed by this update and place them into the unassigned folder automatically.
Ģ Click the blue "Apply changes, keep assigned with the provider, and mark booking with 'NA' tag" button if you would like to keep any bookings that have been assigned during these shifts, even if the shift has been removed. If you select this option, a red "NA" tag ("Not available") will be added to the booking to let you know it is assigned outside of regular working hours.

Once you apply the changes, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the screen, letting you know the provider's availability has been updated successfully.  The provider will now not be able to receive bookings for the dates you submitted.

Even if you make an update to the provider's default availability, the time-off request will remain unaffected.

"Old View" Scheduling
In addition to the options described above, you can use the "Old View" option for setting up and editing provider schedules.  This option is named as such because it was the original manner in which admin and providers could set up their availability.  If you'd like to set up a provider's schedule using this method, you would go to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Once you are on the provider's dashboard, click the "Schedule" tab, then the "Old View" button near the top right corner of the page.

Old View: Quick Add Feature
To quickly add regular recurring availability, you can click the blue "Quick Add" button near the top of the page. This option helps you create a basic schedule for each day of the week all in one pop-up.  The Quick Add tool allows you to select the start and end times for the selected days of the week, the frequency of the shifts, and the locations.

Once finished making selections, click the blue "Add" button at the bottom of the pop-up.  To confirm the availability has been added correctly, you can also select the day of the week and click "Apply" to see all shifts that have been added for that day.  

To add or edit regular recurring availability by day of the week, use the "Whole" option and select which locations (or all) the business has more than one location.   Next, select the day of the week to set up availability and click the blue "Apply" button. All shifts for that day will be displayed in the section below.  If there are no shifts, you will just see an "Add Working Hours" link.

To add a new shift, click "Add Working Hour".  Select the start date and leave the end date empty to have the system update all upcoming shifts for this day.  Next, select the start time and end time for the shift.  

Upon clicking the blue "Save" button, the schedule changes will be applied.  To verify the shifts look correct, you can always select the day of the week and then click "Apply" to view a list of the shifts for that day.  

Old View: Editing Specific Dates and Date Ranges
To edit any existing shifts, click the pencil icon to the right of the date you'd like the schedule changes to take effect.  For example, if the current date is January 1 and the provider's new availability starts in February, one can edit the first shift in February and all shifts before this will remain unchanged.  

Once finished selecting the date, time, and frequency of the shift, click the blue "Save" button to apply the changes.

If you want to change the provider's availability for a specific time frame, you can also use the "Select Date Range" option below the day of the week.  Once you pick the start and end date for the range, you can click the blue "Apply" button to view any shifts currently set up for that period.  

As always, clicking the "Save" button at the bottom of the pop-up will ensure that the schedule is updated.

Old View: Removing Availability
If you want to remove a shift from the provider's schedule, you will start by loading the shifts for any given day.  Once you see the list of shifts,  click the trash can icon to delete it from their schedule.  A pop-up will ask if you want to delete just this one shift or all shifts moving forward.  You can also add a note or reason for internal purposes.

Shifts can also be deleted for a selected date range or the entire schedule of the provider. To clear a provider's entire schedule, you can use the red "Clear Schedule" button at the top of the page.

A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to clear the schedule.  Please select "Yes" to proceed.  

Spot Availability
If your business had multispot bookings enabled (more than one appointment per time slot), you can also adjust the number of bookings providers can receive for each start time.  To do so, click the green "Spots Availability" button near the top right corner of the provider's Schedule page.

The Spots Availability pop-up allows you to edit the number of booking spots by location if the provider services more than one location.  If you would like to update their booking spots for their default availability, use the "Whole" option and then make modifications for each spot. If you only want to update the spots for a specific date, you can instead use the "Specific Date" option and then pick the date from a calendar.  

To add more spots, can enter a new number into the fields next to each start time, then click the blue "Save" button to the right of the spot's field. 

When you are finished making changes, the pop-up can be closed using the red "x" icon at the top right corner.  

How to Control/Limit Locations, Job Types, and Services
If you have multiple industries, services, and/or locations, your providers likely have different preferences for where they work and what types of jobs they can do.

To better control which jobs are unassigned to your providers, you can go to the Settings section under the provider's dashboard. To find this, go to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Click on the "Settings" tab at the top of the screen.  

There are four sections under the settings section: General, Industry, Forms, and Block Customer.  

To view guides on each of these sections, click the links below:
Ģ Setting up a Provider/Team's General Settings
Ģ Setting Up a Provider/Team's Industry Settings
Ģ Setting Up a Provider/Team's Form Settings
Ģ Block a Customer from a Specific Provider



How to send provider schedules automatically
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/send-schedule-automatically-under-store-options-provider-tab

How to send provider schedules automatically
Learn how to enable sending out your provider's schedules automatically.

Last updated on 24 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable the automatic schedule sender
Ģ Set up your preferences for sending out the schedule

Send Schedule Automatically Settings
To set up the "Send Schedule Automatically" section under your Provider Store Options go to: Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Send Schedule Automatically" section.

Would you like to enable the send schedule automatically feature?
Ģ Pick "Yes" to enable sending the schedule automatically.
Ģ Pick "No" to disable the schedule from being automatically sent out.

How would you like to send the schedule?
Ģ Daily - The schedule will be sent out once per day.
Ģ Weekly - The schedule will be sent out once per week.

Select a day and time to send the schedule.

Check the boxes next to the industries you would like to enable this feature for.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.

Your automatic schedule sender has now been activated.

Activate the "Send Schedule" Notification
Next, ensure that the "Send Schedule" email notification has been enabled before sending out the schedule automatically. You can do this by going to: Settings > Notifications > Emails > Provider > Schedule & Settings

Manually Sending Out Schedules
If you would ever like to manually send out the schedule to your providers, please go to: Bookings > Upcoming Bookings

Click the blue "Send Schedule" button towards the top of the screen.

Inside the "Send Schedule" pop-up window, select the schedule dates using the calendar boxes.

Next, select "All Providers" to send the schedule to all providers will bookings for the selected times, or pick "Specific Provider(s)" if you would like to just want to send out the schedule for one or a few providers.

All bookings for the selected dates and providers will be displayed in the bottom section of the window.

Click the grey "Print" button to print a copy or save a PDF of the schedule, or click the blue "Send" button to send the schedule to all of the selected providers.

When a Provider receives their schedule via email it will look like this:
[Image]



Set up the GPS clock in/out feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/enable-the-gps-clock-in-and-out

Set up the GPS clock in/out feature
Learn how to set up the GPS clock in/out feature and customize rules for providers, bookings, and time logs.

Last updated on 19 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Activate the GPS clock in/out feature.
Ģ Configure rules for automatic clocking in and out
Ģ Track one or all team members' time logs
Ģ Set up a notification if your provider is not on the way
Ģ Set up a notification if your provider has not clocked in
Ģ Enable or disable clocking-in for the same job again
Ģ Set up time log approvals to adjust the booking length
Ģ Enable or disable a provider override option to edit time and distance logs

If your business requires it, or if youÆd like to test out a new way of logging your jobs, you can use the GPS Clock In/Out feature. This feature utilizes the providersÆ GPS as well as clock in and out buttons to track travel time, travel distance, and job length. You can also check the job status to see if your provider has clocked in, is on location, and has completed the job.

To learn how providers can use this feature, please click here.

GPS & Time Logs Settings
To begin using this feature, you will need to go into your settings to enable it for your store. To do so, please go to your main menu and click:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "GPS & Time Logs" section.

This section controls all of the options that have to do with the "GPS clock in/out" feature. This feature gives you the ability to track your provider's travel time and distance, clock in and out, and pause the job/take a break. You can also enable automatic clock in/out features based on time and distance.

Would you like to activate the clocking in/clocking out feature?
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable the GPS clock in/out feature.
Ģ Select "No" to disable clocking in/out and GPS tracking for jobs.

What information would you like to track for your Providers/Teams?
Ģ Select "Keep track of both time stamps and path (GPS)" to track the provider or team's location in addition to their clock in and out times.
? A safety feature will be automatically enabled with the following conditions in case someone forgets to clock out. One hour after the job length has passed, a push notification will be sent out asking if the provider(s) are still working.
Ģ If they click "No", the system will automatically clock them out.
Ģ If they click "Yes", they will remain clocked in and will be able to set another notification to remind them to clock out in another hour or two.
Ģ If the provider receives this notification and does not make any selection, they will be automatically clocked out an hour after receiving the notification.
Ģ Select "Only track time stamps" to only track and log the provider's clock in and out times without logging any location information.

Do you use miles or kilometers?
Decide if you'd like to use Miles or Kilometers when the GPS measures travel distance.

Would you like to disable the auto clock-in for a booking? (For GPS-enabled tracking)
Ģ Select "Yes" so providers must manually click the "Clock In" button upon arrival at the job location.
Ģ Select "No" to have the system automatically clock in the provider for the booking upon arrival at the job location.

Would you like to enable automatic clock-outs? (For GPS-enabled tracking)
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow the GPS to automatically clock a provider out once they have traveled a certain distance from the job address. This will only occur after the provider has clocked in on the job site.
Ģ Select "No" so providers must click the "Clock out" button to finish tracking the job length.

At what distance from the booking's location should the system automatically clock out the provider? (For GPS-enabled tracking)
Enter the number of meters the provider must travel before

Would you like the booking to be marked as completed based on the job length or when the provider clocks out?
Ģ If you pick "On job length complete", the system will consider a job "completed" when the job's length has passed in the system.
? For example, if you have a 3-hour job scheduled for 8 AM, the job will be considered "complete" at 11:01 AM, after three hours have passed.
Ģ If you pick "On clock out", the system will not consider a job as completed until the provider clocks out.
? For example, if a 3-hour job is scheduled for 8 AM and the provider clocks out after 3 hours and 30 minutes, the job will be considered completed at 11:30 AM at the time the provider clocks out.
? If a provider forgets to clock in, the job will be completed "on job length complete" instead.

How should the system clock out providers in case of a pair/team?
Ģ Select "Individually for each provider" to allow pairs or teams of providers to clock out at different times.
Ģ Select "If one provider clocks out, all should be clocked out" to automatically clock out the rest of the providers assigned to a booking once one provider clocks out.

Would you like to allow your providers to re-clock in on a booking?
Ģ Select "Yes" to give your providers the option to clock back into a job after clocking out.
? This will generate another time log for the second part of the job.
Ģ Select "No" to block providers from clocking in after they have already clocked out.
? Providers will not be able to log any additional work hours after clicking "clock out".

Would you like time adjustments in the time logs to be updated on the booking as well?
This setting relates to approving time logs in the Booking Time Logs section under the Bookings tab.

Decide if you would like the job length in the provider's time logs to update the booking length upon approval in this section.
Ģ Select "Yes" to update the booking time length when you approve a time log.
? For example, let's say a booking was estimated to take 3 hours. The provider clocked in at 8 AM but didn't end up clocking out until Noon. When the admin approves the provider's time log from 8 AM to 12 PM, the booking length will be updated to 4 hours.
Ģ Select "No" to disable updating the booking length upon approving time logs.
? The booking will length will remain unchanged regardless of how long the provider(s) worked on the job.

Would you like to disable the providerÆs override popup that appears in the provider app after they clock out?
Ģ Select "Yes" to keep the provider time/distance override pop-up disabled.
? Once a provider clicks "Clock out", the booking time log can only be modified by the admin or staff.
Ģ Select "No" to enable the override pop-up.
? When enabled, providers will have the option to edit their working around and travel distance after they have clocked out to account for any differences they forgot to log.

Would you like to track the team leader or all the providers within the team individually?
This option allows you to track either the team leader or each individual in a team.
Ģ Team leader - Only the team leader's hours will be tagged and logged towards the booking length.
Ģ Everyone (individually) - All team members will be tracked individually. All individual hours will be added together to constitute the total job length.
? For example, if one team member tracks 2 hours of work on a booking, and the other tracks 2.5 hours, the booking's total number of billable hours would be 4.5.

How should the system notify customers if there is a pair or team?
Ģ Select "Send separate notifications for each provider" so the customer receives a separate notification for each provider when they are on the way or clocking in.
Ģ Select "A single message should be sent when an event is performed by any one provider" so the customer only receives one notification when any of the providers click "on the way" or "clock in".

When should you and your staff get the notification that a provider did not click the ōOn The Wayö button?
Click the drop-down box to select how many minutes before a job you would like to be notified if the provider did not click the "On The Way" button. You can select as few as 10 or as many as 60 minutes before.

Please note: You must have the email and/or SMS notification "Provider not on the way" enabled for this to work. You can do so by going to: Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Admin > Click In/Clock Out

When should you and your staff get the notification that a provider did not clock in for their booking?
Click the drop-down box to select how many minutes after a job starts you would like to be notified if the provider did not click the "Clock in" button. You can select as few as 10 or as many as 60 minutes after.

Please note: You must have the email and/or SMS notification "Provider not on the way" enabled for this to work. You can do so by going to: Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Admin > Click In/Clock Out

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Clock in and out with the GPS feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/clock-in-and-out-with-the-gps-feature

Clock in and out with the GPS feature
Learn how to clock in and out using the GPS feature in the provider app.

Last updated on 14 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to clock in and out using the GPS clock-in/out feature in the provider app
Ģ How to take a lunch break, resume tracking, and submit log corrections

Clocking In/Out
The clock-in and clock-out feature in the BookingKoala for Providers app is very easy to use. Once users log into the dashboard, they must click on today's booking tab to view the booking details. This section is where they can view more specific information about the service, see customer details, and check for notes.

To download the app from the Apple Store, click here.
To download the app from the Google Play Store, click here.

How to use the GPS Clock-In/Out Feature
If you have enabled the clock in/out feature, your provider will be able to use their app to clock in, clock out, and take breaks all from their app. If GPS tracking has been enabled, they can also record travel time and distance, and use a map to navigate to the job site.

To use the app to record travel time (and distance if applicable), the provider can click the "On the way" button before they leave for the job. If location tracking is enabled, this will turn on their GPS so their phone can log exactly how far they've traveled and how long it took to make it from point A to point B.

The provider can click "View Job On Map" if they want assistance with navigation after clocking in.

Once they click "Clock in", the app will begin tracking how long the service will take to complete.

At this point, the booking time log is created and youÆll be able to view any updates from your Admin dashboard by going to: Bookings > Booking Time Logs

Providers can also choose to use the "Lunch Break" button in case they need to take a break and would like to stop tracking.

Once the break is finished, they can click "Resume" to pick up tracking where they left off.

Once the job has been completed, they can click "Clock Out".

There is also a system safety feature that will ask the provider if they are still working if they have not clocked out more than an hour past the end time of the job in the system.
Ģ A push notification will be sent out asking if the provider(s) are still working.
? If they click "No", the system will automatically clock them out.
? If they click "Yes", they will remain clocked in and will be able to set another notification to remind them to clock out in another hour or two.
? If the provider receives this notification and does not make any selection, they will be automatically clocked out one hour after receiving the notification.

If permitted by the admin, the provider is also able to suggest corrections to the log if they made any mistakes using the clock in/out buttons. However, these will never override the actual GPS logs.

These options and more can be enabled or disabled in the Provider Store Options section.

For more information about how to control your GPS clock in/out settings, please click here.



Setting up provider payments
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/provider-payments

Setting up provider payments
Learn how to set up provider pay rates and reimbursements.

How do provider payments work in BookingKoala?
BookingKoala can be used to track and send out payments to your providers. Once a job is completed (that is, the provider has clocked out or the appointment length has passed), the system pulls any payment information for the assigned provider(s) and adds it to the Provider Payments section.

In the Payments section, select the dates of your pay period and the system will pull all payments due for bookings in that period. You can view a list of all jobs completed during the pay period including a breakdown of how much was paid out for each job. You can also edit the payment total, make adjustments, and add notes before paying out the provider.

If you have connected a payment processor like Stripe or PayPal to your BookingKoala account, you can set up BookingKoala to send payments directly to your providers. Providers have a Payments section in their account to view their paycheck and job breakdown after it has been finalized.

Once payments are sent out, they can be found under the Payment Logs section for your reference, and under the Payments section of the provider's dashboard for their reference.

If you do not want to connect a payment processor and prefer to pay your providers another way, you can mark paychecks as being paid in "Cash/Check. This way, you can still keep a record of payment for yourself and your providers while keeping the Reports section accurate.

Connecting Your Provider Payment Gateway
If you would like to pay your providers through Bookingkoala, you will first need to connect Stripe or PayPal as your payment processor. You can only connect one payment processor per account, so please keep this in mind when deciding which one to use.

Please note: You do not need to connect a payment processor if you plan on paying your employees outside of Stripe or Paypal. Instead, you can use the payment section to help calculate the provider's wages and click the "cash/check" option to let the system know the jobs have been paid out.

Stripe

To learn how to connect Stripe as your payment processor, click here.

To learn how to connect a provider Stripe account, click here.

PayPal

To learn how to connect PayPal as your payment processor, click here.

To learn how to connect a provider PayPal account, click here.

Setting Up a Default Wage
To help speed along the onboarding process, you can choose to set a default wage for your providers. This default will be used whenever a new provider account is created.

To set the default wage, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Use the "plus" icon to expand the Bookings section and scroll down to where it says, "What would you like to set the default pay for all your providers?"

Below, enter the payment amount into the first box, and select a payment type from the second box. The options are:

Ģ Fixed - Providers will receive one payment of the default amount per job.
? For example: If you type in "50" and select "fixed", providers will be paid $50 per job regardless of any other job details. Whether a job costs the customer $50 or $500, the provider will always receive $50 as payment.
Ģ Percentage - The provider will receive a percentage of the job total as payment.
? For example: If you enter "50" and select "percentage", providers will be paid 50% of the total payment. If the customer's total is $200, the provider would receive $100 as payment.
Ģ Hourly - The provider will receive payment based on the length of the booking.
? For example: If you type in "30" and select "hourly", the provider will be paid $30 per hour. If a job's length was 3 hours, the provider will receive $90 in payment.

Once you have made your selections, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page. All newly-created providers accounts will have this set as their default wage.

Setting Up Provider Reimbursements
If your business provides reimbursements for business-related expenses like gas, mileage, or supplies, you can set those up to be automatically calculated into your provider's payment. Reimbursements tend to be for businesses who work with employees; however, you have the option to create reimbursements for contracts and/or employees.

To begin, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Use the "plus" icon to expand the Bookings section. The reimbursement settings are located at the top of this section.

Below the blue "Add Variable" button, select Contractors  (1099 in the US) or Employees (W-2 in the US) depending on which your business works with.

Next, click the blue "Add Variable" to set up reimbursements for this type of worker.

For the "Variable Name", type in the type of reimbursement being processed.

Then, select which location this reimbursement is for.

Ģ If you select "Merchant Location", the reimbursement will be added whenever a provider has a job at a merchant location (such as storefront, office, etc.).
Ģ If you select "Service Area", the reimbursement will be added whenever a provider has a job scheduled in a service area (traveling to the customer's location).

Finally, enter the price in the box at the bottom.

In this example, the reimbursement for "gas" will add $20 to the provider's payment whenever they are scheduled for a booking in a service area.

Click the blue "Save" button to add the reimbursement to the system. Once you are done adding your reimbursement variables, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of this page as well.

For more information about how reimbursements work, click here.



Provider checklist access
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/provider-checklist-access

Provider checklist access
Learn how checklists work for providers, including how to view booking checklist(s), send checklist notes, and complete checklist tasks as a provider.

Last updated on24 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you and your providers learn more about:

Ģ How to access checklists from the provider dashboard and provider app
Ģ How to mark checklist tasks and subtasks as "completed" or "does not apply"
Ģ How to send checklist notes to the admin and staff
Ģ How to upload job media to a checklist or booking

Getting Started

This article goes over how providers access and use features related to the Checklist Module . If you have not added or imported any provider or team accounts yet, or are not familiar with the Bookingkoala checklist features, please refer to the following guides:

Ģ Click here to learn more about provider and team accounts , including how to add and edit provider/team profiles.
Ģ Click here for a general overview of the "Checklist Module" and how to get started.

Provider Checklist Access
Providers can complete checklist(s) , send checklist notes, and add media for a booking from the " Booking Details "/" View Details " page.

Image

The " Booking Details "/" View Details " page is available for bookings assigned to that provider or team in the provider dashboard .

Image

To log in to the provider dashboard, providers can enter their email and password into your site's " Login " page using any web browser , or they can download and log into the BookingKoala for Providers app .

The features available to providers in the checklists will depend on the account's subscription (Starter, Growing, or Premium) as well as each checklist's settings as related to the provider(s) or team.

Provider Checklist Settings & Permissions

Like other sections of the software, the admin controls which checklist features providers can access. Provider access to checklists and related features is set up under the " Checklist Settings " section in the admin checklist dashboard .

To review the provider checklist settings for a specific checklist, please go to:

Settings > General > Checklist

Image

Once the dashboard has opened, select " Options " then " Edit " under the " Actions " column to open a specific checklist.

Image

To view a checklist's settings, click on the " Settings " tab to the right of the " Builder " tab at the top of the Checklist Builder page.

Image

By default, the " Settings " tab always directs to the " Settings " section located at the top of the left-side menu.

Image

The provider checklist settings and permissions in this section are summarized in the list below:

Ģ Is the provider/team required to complete the checklist prior to clocking out?

? Yes
? No
Ģ If the service is recurring, would you like to display this checklist for all bookings in the series?

? Yes
? No

Ģ If No:

? Display this checklist for the first [#] appointments.
? Display this checklist after [#] appointments.
Ģ Should providers be able to add notes to the checklist?

? Yes
? No

Ģ If Yes:

? Would you like to allow providers to add notes for individual tasks/subtasks or should the notes be added for all tasks/subtasks?"

Ģ Individual tasks/subtasks
Ģ All tasks/subtasks
? If a team is assigned to the booking, who will be allowed to add notes to the checklist?

Ģ Team leader only
? Would you like to set up a default checklist note to display to providers?

Ģ Yes
Ģ No

Click here to view a detailed guide on how to set up and customize checklist settings.

How to Use Checklists: Web Version
Providers can view booking checklists from the provider's dashboard via a web browser (the "Desktop" ) or the BookingKoala for Providers App .  This section discusses how to complete checklists and utilize other checklist module features from a web browser.

How to View the Checklist(s)

On the web version of the provider dashboard, providers can access the checklist(s) by clicking on a booking from the job calendar and selecting the " Checklist " button from the " Booking Details " menu.

Image

If the provider is viewing their schedule as a list , they can click the eye icon/"View" button and select the " Checklist " tab at the top of the page.

Image

How to Update & Complete Checklist Tasks

Upon selecting the " Checklist " button or tab, the system opens the " Checklist " page where the provider can view the checklist tasks, subtasks, and other elements.

Providers will see up to two options beneath each subtask: " Upload " and " Does Not Apply ".

Image

Ģ The " Upload " button allows providers to upload job media for a specific subtask using an " Attach File " pop-up window.

Image

Ģ The " Does Not Apply " button allows admin and staff to cancel a specific subtask that is not included in the service.

Image

Providers can mark most subtasks as complete by checking the box to the left of the task name or description.

Image

Other tasks come in the form of single-choice, multiple-choice, written responses, or other elements that log details, feedback, or other information about the service.

Image

As soon as the provider completes or updates one of the checklist subtasks, a note is added to the right of that subtask that says " Completed by: [Provider Name] ". The checklist progress bar will increase and the new percentage of completed tasks will be displayed as " [#]% Completed ", and a green system alert will confirm the " Subtask value has been updated successfully ".

Image

Checklists for providers, admin, staff, and customers are updated simultaneously, in real-time, without reloading the page.

Image

Once all subtasks are completed or marked as " Does Not Apply ", the progress bar will show " 100% Completed ".

Image

Upon clicking the " Complete " button, the checklist will be submitted and the provider(s)/team will not be able to make any further changes.

If a provider accidentally clicks the " Complete " button but has missed completing a subtask or uploading a media file, they cannot go back to that task to change it.

Image

Instead, the provider must contact the admin or staff with permission to " Reset " the checklist. Resetting a checklist will reactivate all subtasks and clear all previously uploaded media, so the provider(s) must upload the data again.

Image

Click here to learn how the admin or staff can reset a checklist for the provider(s).

How to Upload & Tag Job Media

In addition to the " Checklist " tab, the Booking Details page will include a " Job Media " tab to display all images, audio, and video files that have been uploaded by the provider for each subtask and task.

To upload media to the checklist, use the " Upload " option described earlier in the article.

Image

Once a file has been selected, providers can optionally select one or more checklist media tags to assign to the file.  Media tags are enabled by the merchant and can be used to control the types of files the customer is allowed to view.

Providers can add or edit media files and tags using the " Files " button below each subtask containing job media.

Image

Click here to learn more about how admin and staff set up job media tags for checklists.

How to View & Send Checklist Notes

If permission is enabled, providers also have a " Notes " feature from which they can view and send chat-like messages from the checklist to the merchant (the admin or staff).

Image

The primary " Notes " section for the entire checklist is located near the top-right corner of the checklist (below the default note for the provider if applicable).

Image

If providers are allowed to add notes for individual tasks and/or subtasks, they will see " Notes " buttons beneath the enabled tasks and/or subtasks.

Image

Unread notes from the merchant will display a small red number icon on the corner of the " Notes " buttons.

Image

Each note displays who added the note and what time it was sent.  Providers can also edit or delete notes they have sent to the merchant.

Image

How to Use Checklists: App Version
Providers can also view booking checklists from the provider's dashboard via the BookingKoala for Providers App . Click here to find download links for the iPhone and Android apps.

How to View the Checklist(s)

On the BookingKoala for Providers app, providers can access the checklist(s) by selecting the " View Detail " button for any booking on their Dashboard and clicking on the " Checklist " tab at the bottom of the " Booking Details " page.

Image

How to Update & Complete Checklist Tasks

Upon selecting the " Checklist " tab, the system opens the " Checklist " page where the provider can view the checklist tasks, subtasks, and other elements.

Providers will see up to two options for each subtask: " Upload " and " Does Not Apply ".

Image

Ģ The " Upload " button allows providers to upload job media for a specific subtask using the " Upload Media " pop-up window.

Image

Ģ The " Does Not Apply " button allows providers to cancel a specific subtask that is not included in the service.

Image

Providers can mark most subtasks as complete by checking the box to the left of the task name or description. Other tasks come in the form of single-choice, multiple-choice, written responses, or other elements that log details, feedback, or other information about the service.

Image

As soon as the provider completes or updates one of the checklist subtasks, the checklist progress bar will increase and the new percentage of completed tasks will be displayed as " [#]% Completed ".

Image

Checklists for providers, admin, staff, and customers are updated simultaneously, in real-time, without reloading the page.

Image

Once all subtasks are completed or marked as " Does Not Apply ", the progress bar will show " 100% Completed ".

Image

Upon clicking the " Complete " button, the checklist will be submitted and the provider(s)/team will not be able to make any further changes.

If a provider accidentally clicks the " Complete " button but has missed completing a subtask or uploading a media file, they cannot go back to that task to change it.

Image

Instead, the provider must contact the admin or staff with permission to " Reset " the checklist. Resetting a checklist will reactivate all subtasks and clear all previously uploaded media, so the provider(s) must upload the data again.

Image

Click here to learn how the admin or staff can reset a checklist for the provider(s).

How to Upload & Tag Job Media

In addition to the " Checklist " tab, the Booking Details section will include a " Job Media " tab that displays all images , audio , and video files that have been uploaded by the provider under each subtask and task. Providers can also upload media directly to this section.

Image

To upload media to the checklist, providers can use the " Upload " option depicted earlier in the article.  There are three main options in the " Upload Media " pop-up: " Upload Image ", " Upload Audio ", and " Upload Video ".

Image

Ģ "Upload Image" - Providers can use this to upload image files. This option offers two options:

? "Take Photo" - Providers can use their device's camera to take a new photo.
? "Choose From Files" - Providers can select photos saved to their devices.
Ģ "Upload Audio" - Providers can use this option to upload audio files. This option offers two options:

? "Record Audio" - Providers can use their device's camera to record a new audio file.
? "Choose From Files" - Providers can select audio files saved to their devices.
Ģ "Upload Video" - Providers can use this option to upload audio files. This option offers two options:

? " Record Video " - Providers can use their device's camera to record a new video.
? " Choose From Files " - Providers can select videos saved to their devices.

Please Note : To upload various media files, the provider must grant the app access to their mobile device's files and folders.  Images (maximum 10 files selected at a time for the upload) and audio recordings (maximum 5 files selected at a time for the upload) can be uploaded up to a maximum size of 10 MB. Videos (maximum 5 files selected at a time for the upload) up to 50MB and 60 seconds in run-time can be uploaded as Job Media.

Image

Once a file has been selected, providers can optionally select one or more checklist media tags to assign to the file.  Media tags are enabled by the merchant and can be used to control the types of files the customer is allowed to view.

Providers can add, edit, and delete media files and tags using the " View Files " button below each subtask containing job media.

Image

Click here to learn more about how admin and staff set up job media tags for checklists.

How to View & Send Checklist Notes

If permission is enabled, providers also have a " Notes " feature from which they can view and send chat-like messages from the checklist to the merchant (the admin or staff).

Image

The primary " Notes " section for the entire checklist is located in a chat icon at the bottom-right corner of the checklist. Unread notes from the merchant will display a small red number icon on the corner of the " Notes " buttons.

Image

If providers are allowed to add notes for individual tasks and/or subtasks, they will also see " Note " buttons beneath the enabled tasks and/or subtasks.

Image

Each note displays who added the note and what time it was sent.  Providers can also edit or delete notes they have sent to the merchant.

Image

Checklist Access for Other User Types
To learn more about how other users can access and use the Checklist Module features, please refer to the guides linked below:

Admin & Staff

Ģ Click here to learn how to set up staff permissions for the Checklist Module.
Ģ Click here to learn about the admin checklist dashboard , including how admin and staff view, filter, add, edit, archive, publish, and delete checklists.
Ģ Click here to learn how admin and staff use various checklist tools on the booking form.
Ģ Click here to learn how admin and staff access the "Checklist Progress" dashboard , including how to view live checklist updates, add notes, and send messages to the customer or provider(s).

Customers

Ģ Click here to learn how customers access checklists and use checklist features.



Setting up reimbursements
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/set-up-reimbursements

Setting up reimbursements
Learn more about how to set up, update, and delete provider reimbursements.

Last updated on 24 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How to set up reimbursements for employees
Ģ How to update reimbursements and apply the changes to existing providers
Ģ How to change reimbursements for a specific booking
Ģ How to delete reimbursements from your account

Adding a New Reimbursement
If your business provides reimbursements for business-related expenses like gas, mileage, or supplies, you can set those up to be automatically calculated into your provider's payment.  Reimbursements tend to be for businesses that work with employees; however, you have the option to create reimbursements for contractors as well.

To begin, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Use the " plus" icon to expand the Bookings section. The reimbursement settings are located at the top of this section.

Below the blue " Add Variable " button, select Contractors (1099 in the US) or Employees (W-2 in the US) depending on which your business works with.

Next, click the blue " Add Variable " to set up reimbursements for this type of worker.

For the " Variable Name ", type in the type of reimbursement being processed.

Then, select which location this reimbursement is for.

Ģ If you select " Merchant Location ", the reimbursement will be added whenever a provider has a job at a merchant location (such as storefront, office, etc.).
Ģ If you select " Service Area ", the reimbursement will be added whenever a provider has a job scheduled in a service area (traveling to the customer's location).

Finally, enter the price in the box at the bottom.  If you do not have a standard reimbursement price for a location, you can enter $0 as the price and then edit the actual reimbursement amount per booking as described in the section below.

In this example, the reimbursement for "gas" will add $20 to the provider's payment whenever they are scheduled for a booking in a service area.

In this example, "Fueld Reimbursement" and "Supplies Reimbursement" are both set to $0.

Click the blue " Save " button to add the reimbursement to the system.  Once you are done adding your reimbursement variables, remember to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of this page as well.

Updating Reimbursements for Individual Providers/Teams
If you set up your reimbursements before creating your provider accounts, the reimbursement amounts will be automatically applied to their account.  If reimbursements were set up after a provider account was added, they will not be included unless you update their profile .

If you want to edit or update reimbursements for a specific provider, go to the provider's dashboard and click on the " Profile " tab.

Scroll down until you see " Default category ". The reimbursements will be located below the provider type (contractor or employee).

Ģ Reimbursements set up for the jobs in the field will display under " SA " for " service area ".
Ģ Reimbursements that are associated with a business location are displayed under " ML " for " merchant location ".

Click inside the box to edit the amount(s). Click the blue " Update " button when finished to save the changes.  Reimbursements will be automatically added to any bookings assigned to this provider, as long as they have not been charged yet.  Reimbursements cannot be added for bookings that have already been charged or paid out to the provider.

Updating Reimbursements in a Booking
If you would like to change a provider's reimbursement for a specific appointment, you can edit them directly inside the booking form.  Click the eye icon or " edit " to open the booking and scroll down to the "Assigned To" section.

Click on the blue Reschedule button.  The provider's reimbursements will be located just below the Wage box.

Enter the new amount into the box. Be sure to check if you are saving the reimbursement for "just this booking" or "all future appointments" depending on whether you'd like to save the new amount for just this one time, or if you'd like the change to be updated on future recurring bookings.

Finally, click the blue " Update Booking " button from the right-side menu to update the reimbursement for the booking.

When you modify a reimbursement for a specific booking (one-time or recurring), that amount will not be overridden by any changes to the provider's default reimbursements.

For example, let's say a provider is being reimbursed $20 for gas for a specific customer.  If the default reimbursement is changed to $15 in the provider's profile, the $20 reimbursement for this specific booking will remain unaffected.

Deleting Reimbursements from Store Options
If you do not want a specific provider to receive reimbursements for a variable,  you can easily change the amount to $0 and then click " Update " in their profile.  However, if you do not want to use this reimbursement variable for any of your providers, you can delete it from the system.

To begin, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Use the " plus" icon to expand the Bookings section and view the reimbursement settings. Click the red " Delete " button next to the reimbursement you want to get rid of.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to delete this reimbursement. Click " Yes " to proceed.  A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the provider variable has been deleted successfully.

Next, you will either need to log out and back in again ; or, perform a " hard refresh " of the page.  A hard refresh is performed differently from browser to browser but usually involves holding down the command or shift key and pressing " R " or " Reload " on your keyboard.

This will remove the reimbursement from your providers' account settings, update any bookings assigned to them, and remove any data regarding reimbursements from the Reports section.



Changing a provider's pay rate
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/changing-a-provider-s-pay-rate

Changing a provider's pay rate
Learn how to modify provider pay rates and reimbursements.

The purpose of this article is to help you:

Ģ Update the default wage for a provider or team
Ģ Change a provider's wages for a booking

Updating a Provider/Team's Default Wage
You can update the wage of any individual provider or team if you do not want to use the default age set up in the Provider Store Options section.

To begin, go to the provider / teams ' dashboard and click on " Settings ", then " Forms ".

Click on the Industry Name and Form Number you'd like to update, then use the boxes below where it says " Wages " to change the pay rate for this form and industry.   Just like with the default provider wage, payments can be set as Fixed , Percentage , or Hourly .

If you would like to update the provider's wages for all forms and industries in one step, you can use the Quick Add option.

Click the light blue " Quick Add " button to open the tool and check the box next to " Wages ".  Enter the payment amount and select the payment type from the drop-down menu. Click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the pop-up window to apply the changes.

Updating Provider Payments Per Booking
If you would like to change a provider's wage for a specific appointment, you can edit it directly inside the booking form.  Click the pencil icon or the " Edit " button to open the booking details page and scroll down to the "Assigned To" section.

Click on the blue Reschedule button.  The provider's wage will be located to the left of the provider's picture and general information.

Enter the new payment amount into the box below " Wage " and select the payment type:

Ģ " $ " for a fixed-rate payment
Ģ " % " for a percentage-based payment
Ģ " /Hr " for an hourly wage

For recurring bookings, be sure to check if you are saving the wage for "just this booking" or "all future appointments" depending on whether you want to update one or all bookings.

Finally, click the blue " Update Booking " button from the right-side menu to update the provider's wages.  The provider's default wage will remain the same, with only this booking/series of bookings containing the new rate.



Sending out provider payments
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/sending-out-provider-payments

Sending out provider payments
Learn how to send out, pause, and resume provider payments and where to locate payment logs.

Last updated on 17 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Send out payments to providers
Ģ Pause and resume provider payments
Ģ Locate the payment logs
Ģ Understand if you can "undo" a payment once it has been sent to a provider

Provider Payments
When you are ready to send out your provider's payments, select "Providers" from the left side menu and click on "Payments".

This section is where all provider payments are finalized, whether that means transferring the funds to the provider's Stripe or Paypal account or marking the wages as "cash/check" in the system so you can use a different payment method.

Select the Pay Period
First, use the calendar box in the top left corner to select the dates of the pay period, or you can select a pre-defined period. Click the blue "Apply" button to view all payments due for that period.

The total "Amount due for the selected date range" will be updated.

Please note that the "Amount owed up to current date" column displays ALL payments owed to that provider, regardless of the selected date range. This is why the amount owed up to the current date will always be equal to or higher than the amount for the selected range.

View the Job Listing
If you would like to see a detailed breakdown of the provider's paycheck, click on "Options" under the Actions column and select "Job Listing".

A pop-up window will open with the basic job details of each booking. Hover over the amount or "learn more" to see the payment breakdown including tips, parking fees, and job bonuses (if applicable).

Under the Actions column, you can hover over the "three dots" icon to see additional details about the job. You can click the eye icon / "View" to open the booking.

Adjusting a Provider Payment
You can adjust a payment by clicking the plus sign icon next to the amount for the selected range.

A pop-up window will allow you to enter a new total under where it says "Adjustment Amount". You can provide additional notes or details in the "Adjustment Reason" box. Click the blue "Save" button to update the provider's payment total and save any notes that have been added.

Once an adjusted total has been saved, the color of the text is changed to red and an icon is inserted to display whatever notes have been saved. You can hover over the "note icon" to read the notes or click the "pencil icon" to edit them again.

Sending Payment to an Individual Provider
If you have set up a payment processor and your provider has a connected account, you can send their paycheck directly from inside the Provider Payments section.

To send a payment out for a specific provider, click "Options" and select "Pay".

A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to pay this provider. Click "Yes" to initiate the transfer via your payment processor.

Sending Payment to Multiple Providers
To send payments out to multiple providers at the same time, check the boxes next to each provider's name, or click the top-most "select all" checkbox next to Name/Email to select all providers with a connected account. If a provider does not have an account connected or their payment has been paused, they will not be selected.

Then, click the green "Make Payment For Selected" button at the top of the page. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to send out the selected payments.

Once payment has been sent in BookingKoala, there is no "undo" option. If you sent out a payment accidentally, you will need to reach out to your payment processer's support team as soon as possible to stop the transaction before the transfer is completed.

You may need to wait up to a minute depending on how many providers you are paying out. Once the transfers have been initiated, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner letting you know that payments have been submitted successfully.

Mark Checks as Paid Using the "Cash/Check" Option
If a provider does not have a connected account or you pay your providers differently, you can use "Cash/Check" under "Options" to submit their payment.

This will also generate a payment log for the provider, staff, and admin to reference without actually sending the funds from BookingKoala.

Pausing and Resuming Provider Payments
If would like to wait to send out a provider's payment, you can "Pause" it. This moves the payment into a separate section called "Paused Payments". When a payment has been paused, it must be resumed before the payment can be sent. This prevents paused payments from being sent out when you use the "select all" checkbox and click "Make Payment For Selected".

To pause a payment, find the provider's row in the Payments section and click "Options", "Pause". A pop-up window will ask the reason for pausing the payment.

You must enter at least one character into the box so you can click the blue "Pause Now" button. The provider's payment will be moved into the Paused Payments section at the bottom of the page.

To resume a paused payment, scroll back down to the "Paused Payments" section. You can either click the orange "Resume" button to resume a single provider's payment, or you can use the checkboxes next to each provider and then click the blue "Resume Selected" button.

A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to resume the payment. Click "Yes" to proceed. The payment can now be sent out.

Provider Payment Logs
There are two places you can view your provider's payments: the provider Payment Logs and a provider's Payments tab.

To view logs for all providers, go to Providers > Payment Logs from the left side menu.

Use the search bar to look up payments by the provider's name, email, or phone number. Click the eye icon / "View" to see a breakdown of the paycheck by the job.

To view paychecks sent to a specific provider, go to the provider's dashboard and click on the "Payments" tab at the top of the page.

Reverse a Payment
Unfortunately, there is no feature within BookingKoala that allows you to reverse or undo a payment once it has already been sent out.

If you are using Stripe, Square, or PayPal, you will have to go into that account and stop the transaction before it reaches the other account.

Typically you have a few hours to do this after payment is sent out.

For assistance with stopping a payment from transferring, please contact support at the links below:
Ģ Stripe Support
Ģ Braintree by Paypal Support
Ģ Square Support



Pending payments and active bookings messages
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/pending-invitations-error-and-active-bookings-message

Pending payments and active bookings messages
Learn more about the pending payments and active booking messages and how to resolve them.

Last updated on 17 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Learn what the pending payments/active booking pop-ups mean
Ģ Make the proper updates so you can move forward with your changes

Pending Payments & Active Bookings Messages
Whenever you are making changes to a provider/teams' settings or if you are deactivating their account, you may have noticed one or more of the following pop-up messages:

The "Active Bookings" pop-up will be displayed if you are trying to remove a parameter from a provider's form or industry settings but that provider still has bookings assigned to them containing the parameter.

For example, let's say you are removing a location from a provider's settings section.

After unchecking the setting and clicking the "Save" button, the "Active Bookings" pop-up will display if the provider has any pending or upcoming bookings at that location.

To proceed with making the update, select one of the following options:
Ģ "Apply Changes and mark bookings as unassigned" will move any bookings impacted by the setting update off the provider's schedule and into the unassigned folder.
Ģ "Apply changes, keep assigned with the provider, and mark booking with 'NA' tag" will leave the affected bookings on the provider's schedule but will add an "NA" tag to indicate that they are not normally available for this service.

Similarly, you will see an "Active Bookings" pop-up if you are trying to deactivate a provider if they still have jobs assigned to them.

If you are certain you are ready to deactivate the provider or team, click the blue "Unassign the bookings and deactivate the provider/team" button. This action will move any upcoming bookings on the provider's schedule to the Unassigned Folder and complete the account deactivation.

Another message that may appear when you try to deactivate a provider's account is the "Pending Payments" pop-up.

This pop-up will display if there are any outstanding payments still due for that provider. A provider cannot be deactivated or deleted until all pending payments have been resolved.

If you are ready to proceed with deactivating the account, you can click the blue "Pay" button to pay the provider via your payment processor, or you can click the green "Check/Cash" to indicate if the provider has already been paid out in another way.

Once all outstanding payments have been marked as paid, you will now be able to finish deactivating the provider's account.



Fix the "no such destination" error for provider Stripe payouts
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/fix-the-no-such-destination-error-for-provider-stripe-payouts

Fix the "no such destination" error for provider Stripe payouts
Learn how to fix the "no such destination" error pop-up when you are trying to payout providers with Stripe.

Last updated on 20 Dec, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to fix the "no such destination" error when paying out providers via Stripe

"No Such Destination" Error
If you are trying to pay out your provider but are receiving a red error message that says "No such destination", this means that the account ID you've provided doesn't exist or isn't connected to your platform, or perhaps you are using an API key that belongs to a different account.

To resolve the issue, you will first want to ensure that the correct Stripe account ID has been connected to your provider's account. If the wrong ID was connected, the payout will fail and return this message.

If the correct stripe ID has been connected for the provider, you will then need to check your store's Stripe connection to ensure that the proper keys are in place.

Manually Reconnect the Provider's Account

The first thing to try is to manually reconnect the provider's stripe account. Please go to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Click on the "Payment Processor" tab at the top of the page.

Then, disconnect the stripe account by clicking the red "X" icon next to "Connected with Stripe".

If you would like to have your provider connect their Stripe account again from their dashboard, they can follow these instructions on how providers can connect their own Stripe account.

If you have the provider's Stripe login information and access to their phone for two-step verification, you can follow these instructions on how admin can connect a provider's Stripe account.

It may also be possible the provider's Stripe ID is saved in your admin Stripe Dashboard. To check, go to your Stripe dashboard and search for their name or email address under the Connect tab.

Click on the provider's account, then scroll down until you see the "Identity" section.

Their account id will be located just under the "Account Details" area. Copy the ID.

Back in BookingKoala, paste the provider's account ID into the Stripe Account ID box, and then click the blue "Save" button.

Now you can go back and try to send the payment again. If the payment goes through, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the provider has been paid successfully.

If you try to send the payment again and receive the same error message again, the next step is to check your store's Stripe connection.

Check Your Stripe API Keys

To check your Stripe connection, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Admin

Scroll down to the Connect Payment Gateways section at bottom of the page.

Both boxes should be filled in with:
Ģ A publishable key, which always begins with "pk_live_" and proceeds with a long string of numbers and letters
Ģ A secret key, which always begins with "sk_live_", followed by numbers and letters.

Next, click on API keys from the Developers menu on the left. You will want to make sure it says "Viewing live API keys" at the top of the screen.

If it shows you are viewing your test API keys instead, click the "View test data" button to turn it off.

The two keys we use to connect your account are located in the Standard Keys section.

Ensure that both keys from this page are inserted into the correct boxes in BookingKoala, and then click the blue "Save" button.

Next, go back to the Provider Payments section and send out the provider's payment again. You should now see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page once the payment is sent.

If you continue to experience the same error, please contact us at support@bookingkoala.com



Enable provider booking features under "Store Options"
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-bookings-under-store-options-provider-tab

Enable provider booking features under "Store Options"
Learn how to customize rules and features that relate to your provider's
bookings.

Last updated on 17 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:

Ģ Set up provider reimbursements
Ģ Enable teams
Ģ Set a default wage for your providers
Ģ Enable or disable the Help Center link for providers
Ģ Enable the "My Drive" feature for providers
Ģ Enable the "Speed tag" feature for providers
Ģ Determine how providers will be paid out of discounted services
Ģ Allow providers to edit their profile
Ģ Allow providers to reset their password
Ģ Activate the "Digital Signature" feature
Ģ Activate the "Provider Feedback" feature
Ģ Set up the "Late Arrival" message
Ģ Allow providers to take notes in the booking
Ģ Display or hide the customer's payment method from the provider
Ģ Display or hide the booking total from the provider
Ģ Display or hide certain provider payments from the provider

Booking Settings
To set up the "Bookings " section under your Provider Store Optionsgo
to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Bookings " section.

Reimbursements
If your business provides reimbursementsfor business-related expenses
like gas, mileage, or supplies, you can set those up to be automatically
calculated into your provider's payment. Reimbursements tend to be for
businesses who work with employees; however, you have the option to create
reimbursements for contractors as well.

Below where it says "Reimbursements ", select Contractors(1099 in the
US) orEmployees(W-2 in the US) depending on which your business works
with.

Next, click the blue "Add Variable" to set up reimbursements for this
type of worker. For the "Variable Name", type in the type of
reimbursement being processed.

Then, select which location this reimbursement is for.

Ģ If you select "Merchant Location ", the reimbursement will be added whenever a provider has a job at a merchant location (such as storefront, office, etc.).
Ģ If you select "Service Area ", the reimbursement will be added whenever a provider has a job scheduled in a service area (traveling to the customer's location).

Finally, enter the price in the box at the bottom.

In this example, the reimbursement for "gas" will add $20 to the provider's
payment whenever they are scheduled for a booking in a service area.

Click the blue "Save " button to add the reimbursement to the system.

Once saved, your reimbursements will show up under the Contractor and/or
Employee tabs below.

For a more detailed guide on how to set up and edit provider reimbursements, click here.

Do you allow team members to work individually or with other teams?
Ģ Select "Yes " to allow providers added to a team to also be scheduled as individual providers. This means that when the system checks availability, it will check individual availability as well as the teams. Customers can be scheduled with one member of a team or both members depending on their availability.
Ģ Select "No " to disable this feature. Providers added to a team will always work with the same members and cannot be scheduled as an individual.

What would you like to set the default pay for all your providers?
To set a default pay rate for all of your providers, enter the payment amount into the first box, and select a payment typefrom the second
box. The options are:

Ģ Fixed - Providers will receive one payment of the default amount per job.

? For example: If you type in "50" and select "fixed", providers will be paid $50 per job regardless of any other job details. Whether a job costs the customer $50 or $500, the provider will always receive $50 as payment.

Ģ Percentage - The provider will receive a percentage of the job total as payment.

? For example: If you enter "50" and select "percentage", providers will be paid 50% of the total payment. If the customer's total is $200, the provider would receive $100 as payment.

Ģ Hourly - The provider will receive payment based on the length of the booking.

? For example: If you type in "30" and select "hourly", the provider will be paid $30 per hour. If a job's length was 3 hours, the provider will receive $90 in payment.

Would you like each provider to have a "My Drive" option to share their
documents?

Ģ Select "Yes " to enable a "My Drive" section in your providers' dashboards. This will allow you and your staff to upload files directly into their account. 
Ģ Select "No " to disable the "My Drive" feature for providers.

Would you like to allow your providers to upload files?

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, decide if you would like
to allow providers to upload files into the My Drive section.

Ģ Select "Yes " to allow them to upload files.
Ģ Select "No " to only allow staff and admin to upload files into their My Drive.

Would you like to enable the speed tag on your providers' profiles?
Ģ Select "Yes " to enable the speed tag feature on your provider's profiles. This allows you and staff members to keep track of how fast a provider performs a service.

? By default, the speed tag for all newly added providers will be "New ".
? The other speed tag options are "Slow ", "Medium ", and "Fast ".  

? The speed tag can be selected by going to a provider's dashboard and clicking on the Profile tab.  

? This tag will not be seen by customers and does not affect the total length of time as calculated by the booking form parameters.
Ģ Select "No " to disable the speed tag for providers.

Would you like to disable the help center tab in the providerÆs dashboard?
Ģ If you select "Yes ", your providers will NOT see a "Help Center" tab in their dashboard. 
Ģ If you select "No ", the help center tab will be added to the provider dashboard.  

? When a provider clicks the Help Center tab, they will be redirected to the Bookingkoala Help Center.

Would you like the system to calculate the provider's pay based on the
original or the adjusted total on your bookings?

This question relates to the price adjustment featureinside the booking
form.

Ģ Select "Original Amount " to pay the provider our of the final service total as determined by the booking form's pricing parameters. 
Ģ Select "Adjustment Amount " to pay providers out of whatever amount you enter in the price/time adjustment section.

Would you like to apply the discount for service providers even if the
provider payments are set to either flat rate or hourly?

This question pertains to hourly and flat-rate provider payments. When
a customer has a discount on their service (such as a frequency discount for
recurring customers), decide if that discount will impact the provider's
payment or not. If your provider's payments are percentage-based, the discount
will always impact the provider's payment.

Ģ Select "Yes " to apply the customer's discount to the provider's payment. 

? For example, let's say a customer receives a 10% discount for having monthly services. The one-time rate for the service is normally $200, so their final total is $180 per booking. If a provider normally earns a flat fee of $150 per job, they will take home $135 for each monthly job. This is because they earn 10% less as the customer receives a 10% discount.
Ģ Select "No" so the provider's payments are unaffected by any discounts the customer has applied to their booking.

Please note:If you make changes to this setting after you have already
created recurring services, all existing bookings will be affected by this
update.

Ģ If you hover over the bookings price, you will see the original payment amount set up before the update occurred. 
Ģ Once you open the booking form, the new payment amount will be displayed. To save the new payment amount into a booking, you must reschedule or update the booking.

Would you like to allow your providers the ability to edit their profiles?
Ģ Select "Yes " to allow providers to change their profile picture, name, email address, phone number, and personal address.
Ģ Select "No " so providers can only view their profile information but cannot make edits on their own.

Would you like to allow your providers the ability to reset their
passwords?

Ģ Select "Yes " to allow providers to use a "Reset Password " link on the login page to reset their password. 
Ģ Select "No " to disable the "Reset Password " process for providers. Providers must contact the admin who can change their password under the provider's Profile section of their dashboard.

Would you like to activate the digital signature feature?
This setting allows you to enable the digital signature feature for your
providers.

This option allows a customer to sign their name in the provider's app once
the job has been completed. This is an especially useful tool to reduce the
number of disputed charges for your business.

If you select "Yes" for this question, decide if you'd like to add an
explanation for the digital signature.

Select "Yes " and enter the message into the text box.

Would you like to activate the feedback feature?
This feature allows providers to rate and share feedback on behalf of the
customer through the provider app.

Ģ Select "Yes " to allow providers to add customer ratings and comments in a feedback page in their account.
Ģ Select "No " to disable this feedback and rating feature.

If you answered "Yes" to the previous question, decide if you'd like to
include an explanation for your request for feedback.

Select "Yes " and enter the message into the text box.

Would you like to enable the "late arrival" message?
This option allows you to set a custom "late arrival" message to your
customers directly from the BookingKoala dashboard.

Admin can send out the message by clicking the "send message" icon to the
left of any booking listed in the system.

Ģ Select "Admin only " to only allow admin and staff members to use this option to notify clients.
Ģ Select "Both (admin & provider)" to allow providers to use this feature as well.

Enter the message into the box below. Use the "View Short Codes" button
to add dynamic shortcodes to the message. These will populate with the
customer's details when the message is sent.

You can edit the label of the button underneath "Name of message button ".

Would you like to allow your providers to add notes on their bookings?
Ģ Select "Yes " to allow providers to add and save notes into a booking. 
Ģ Select "No " to disable this feature.

Do you want to show the payment method to the provider(s)?
Ģ Select "Yes " to show what type of payment method the customer is using to the provider.

? If you selected "Yes ", decide whether you would like to show the payment method to the providers for cash/check payments or both cash/check and debit/credit payments.
Ģ Select "No " to hide the customer's payment method from the provider.

Do you want to show the booking price to the provider(s)?
Ģ Select "Yes " to show your provider's customer's booking total.

? If you selected "Yes ", decide whether you would like to show the booking price to the providers if the customer is making a cash/check payment or both cash/check and debit/credit payments.
Ģ Select "No " to always hide the customer's booking price from the provider.

Would you like to hide the provider's payment(s) from your provider(s)?
Ģ Select "Yes " to control which types of payments your providers can see. 

? Check the boxes next to the following options to hide that type of provider payment.

Ģ Select "No (show all) " to show providers their payment amount for each booking.

Remember to Save!
If you have made any changes, remember to click the blue "Save" button at
the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Enable the provider live chat feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/live-chat

Enable the provider live chat feature
Learn how to enable the provider live chat feature to send and receive messages from providers in your dashboard.

Last updated on 19 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Enable the provider chat feature under the chat settings section

Chat Settings
The Chat Settings section under the General Store Options tab allows you to enable the provider live chat feature. To enable it, please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > General

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Chat Settings" section.

Do you want to activate the chat feature?
Select "Yes" to activate the provider live chat.

Then, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the screen.

How does the live chat feature work?
Once enabled, a blue chat icon will be inserted into the bottom right corner of the page.

To send a new message, click the chat icon and select the provider's name from the list.

You can click the blue paperclip icon to attach and send files, and the grey paper airplane icon to send your message.

When you receive a new message from a provider, an orange dot will be added to the icon. There will also be an orange chat icon next to the provider who sent the new message when you look at the list of providers. When a provider is online, the grey dot to the right of their name will become green.

Likewise, when your provider receives a new message from you, they will also see an orange dot over the Chat tab in the provider app.

After they click on the Chat tab, they can click on the merchant's name to send or respond to their message. If the provider works for multiple BookingKoala companies, they can send and receive messages from all merchants from the same chatbox.

Providers can also attach and send files to you through live chat.



Enable the speed tag
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/enable-the-speed-tag

Enable the speed tag

Learn how the speed tag works and how to enable it for your providers.

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is the speed tag
Ģ How to enable the speed tag for providers
Ģ How to update a provider's speed tag

What is the speed tag?
When enabled, the "speed tag" allows the admin and staff to assign a speed to each provider or team. The provider's speed does not impact how bookings are assigned to them but rather serves as a point of reference for internal purposes. Only admin and staff can see the speed tag for each provider.

Once saved, the speed tag can be viewed under the Provider's "Profile" tab, or by going to:
Providers > Providers

Enable the Speed Tag
To enable the speed tag for your providers, please go to:
Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, select the "Provider" tab.
Next, click on the "Bookings" section to expand it. You will see a list of settings that pertains to your provider accounts.
Scroll down until you see the question, "Would you like to enable the speed tag on your provider's profiles?" and select "Yes".
Then, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, letting you know your provider settings have been updated successfully.

Update a Provider's Speed Tag
When you first enable the speed tag, all new and existing providers will have "New" selected for their speed. To update a provider or teams speed, go to:
Providers > Providers

Click on the name of the team or provider you'd like to update. You will be directed to their dashboard. Next, click the "Profile" tab at the top of the page.

Scroll down just below the "Address" section until you see the "Speed" drop-down menu. The options are:
Ģ New
Ģ Slow
Ģ Medium
Ģ Fast

After selecting the provider's speed, click the blue "Update" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, confirming that the provider's profile has been updated successfully.

Tags: speed tag, provider speed



Enable provider pairing
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/provider-pairing

Enable provider pairing
Learn how to set up your individual providers to be paired with others on a job-by-job basis.

Last updated on 23 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What is provider pairing
Ģ How to enable provider pairing in your store settings
Ģ How to enable provider pairing for individual providers
Ģ How to prevent providers from being paired

What is provider pairing?
Provider pairing allows individual providers to be placed into temporary teams per booking. This differs from teams, who always perform all jobs with the same team members every time.

For example, when provider pairing has been enabled, you can combine Provider A with Provider B for a morning job, and Provider A with Provider C for an afternoon job. This is a great feature if you work with individual providers but sometimes send out additional providers depending on the job type.

Enabling Pairing for a Specific Provider
Provider pairing can be enabled per provider under their profile's Form Settings. First, go to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Click on the "Settings" tab at the top of the screen.

Then click on the "Forms" tab just below.

If you have multiple industries and booking forms, you can set which forms/industries to enable pairing for. Click on the industry and booking form tabs you would like to enable pairing for.

Scroll down to the question "Can this individual be combined with other providers (pairs)?"

Ģ Select "Yes" to enable provider pairing for this
Ģ Select "No" to disable provider pairing. Only teams or individual providers can be assigned to each booking.

Then, click the blue "Save" button to update the provider's settings. They can now be paired with other pairable providers for this industry/form.

Prevent Provider Pairing
If you have provider pairing enabled but would like to restrict a specific provider from being paired with others, you can disable provider pairing for individual accounts.

To do so, go to:

Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

On the provider's dashboard, click the "Settings" tab, then select the "Forms" tab.

If you have more than one industry or booking form, use the tabs to select which industry and form you would like to disable provider pairing for.

Then scroll down until you see "Can this individual be combined with other providers (pairs)?" and select "No".

Then, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page to update the provider's settings.

The provider is now disabled from being paired with other providers for this industry and booking form.



Using the quick add tool for providers
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/use-the-quick-add-tool-for-providers

Using the quick add tool for providers
Learn how to use the quick add tools for setting up provider schedules and settings.

Last updated on 17 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What is the quick add tool
Ģ How to use the quick add tool to easily modify provider settings

What is the quick-add tool?
The quick-add tool has been created to allow you to quickly and easily make changes to some or all of your providers' settings.

For example, if you want to update the pay rate for multiple providers at the same time, you can use this tool without having to go and update each provider's settings from their dashboard.

To use the tool, please go to:

Providers > Providers

Then, click on the orange " Quick Add " button at the top right corner of the page.

The " Quick Add " pop-up will appear. At the top of the pop-up, you can select " All " to make changes to all provider settings.

If you select " Specific ", you can search and select specific providers to update their settings.

If you select " Browse ", a pop-up will allow you to browse through a list of providers and select the ones you'd like to update.

Once you've selected the providers, you can use the tabs in the section below to make changes to their settings.

Profile

Under the " Profile " tab, you can update the provider's default category to " Contractor " or " Employee " by checking the box next to " Default Category " and then picking an option.

If you have any reimbursements set up, you can check the box next to " SA " (for "service area") or " ML " (for "merchant location") to set a new reimbursement amount for your providers.

You can also change your team settings by checking the box next to " Do you allow these team members to work individually or with other teams? " and selecting " Yes " or " No " below.

Settings

Under the " Settings " tab, there are three subsections: General , Industry , and Form .

General

The General tab contains the following settings:

Ģ Can this provider/team set their own schedule?
? Yes or No
Ģ Who can set their own schedule?
Ģ Does the merchant have to approve the request?
? Yes or No
Ģ Can this provider/team set their own settings?
? Yes or No
Ģ Who can set their own settings?
Ģ Does the merchant have to approve the settings request?
? Yes or No
Ģ Show unassigned jobs to the provider?
? Yes or No
Ģ Who will see the unassigned folder in their account if it is a team?
Ģ Turn off this provider or team from being booked by any customer but can be booked by admin/staff only?
? Yes or No
Ģ Which location is the default location for this provider/team?
? [Select default location]
Ģ Turn off this provider or team from being booked for same-day jobs?
? Yes or No
Ģ Do you want to show the payment method to this provider/team?
? Yes or No
? Show only for cash/check or Both (cash/check or credit/debit card)
Ģ Do you want to show the booking price to this provider/team?
? Yes or No
? Show only for cash/check or Both (cash/check or credit/debit card)
Ģ Would you like to hide the providers' payment(s) from your provider/team?
? Provider payment, tip, parking, bonus, service fee, reimbursements, total pay

Industry

The Industry tab allows you to enable or disable industries and booking forms for your providers.

Check the box next to the industry name and then select the boxes next to the booking forms you want to enable beneath that industry.

Form

The Form tab controls the following settings:

Ģ Turn on multiple appointments?
? Per booking spot or Off
Ģ Wages
? Fixed, Percentage, Hourly
Ģ Who will see the jobs?
Ģ Who will receive payments?
Ģ Select frequency
? [Your frequencies]
Ģ Can this individual be combined with other providers (pairs)?
? Yes or No
Ģ Service category
? [Your service categories]
Ģ Pricing parameters
? [Your pricing parameters]
Ģ Exclude parameters
? [Your exclusion parameters]
Ģ Items
? [Your items]
Ģ Packages
? [Your packages]
Ģ Extras
? [Your extras]
Ģ Customer Locations
? [Your customer locations/service areas]
Ģ Merchant Locations
? [Your merchant locations]

Notifications

The Notification tab allows you to update the notification settings for all of the selected providers.

Check the box next to the notification you would like to update, and then click the red " Disable " button to switch it to " Enabled ".

If you check the box but leave the notification on disabled, this will turn off the notification for your providers.

Schedule

To make a mass schedule change, select the " Schedule " tab on the quick-add popup.

Next, select the start time and end time for the schedule.

For the time frame , select " Whole " to update the entire recurring schedule for the selected providers, or pick " Select Date Range " to select the dates you want to update.

Under " Days ", check the boxes next to the days of the week you would like to update.

For " Frequency ", select how often you would the shift to occur.

Finally, select which Locations you would like to apply the change.

Remember to Save!

Once you are finished making your selections, click the blue " Add " button at the bottom right corner of the pop-up.

Only the box(es) you have selected a checkbox next to will be updated. You will receive a pop-up message reminding you that providers with existing schedules will be overridden by these changes. If you are sure you want to proceed with the update, click the blue " Override " button.

You will see another pop-up message letting you know the system has begun updating the provider settings/schedule. You can click the red " X " button to close out this window.

To check on the status of your quick-add, you can go to:

Logs > System Logs

Once the quick-add is finished, it will be logged here.



Block a provider from being booked with a specific customer
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/prevent-a-provider-team-from-being-paired-with-a-specific-customer

Block a provider from being booked with a specific customer
Learn how to prevent providers/teams from being paired with specific customers.

Last updated on 17 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Block a customer from being assigned to a specific provider or team
Ģ Unblock a customer from a specific provider

Block a Customer from a Specific Provider
There are many reasons why you may wish to block a customer from booking with a certain provider. Perhaps a customer had a poor experience with a provider and prefers to be scheduled with someone else in the future. Or, the provider may not have felt the client was the best fit and requested not to return.

Whatever the case may be, you have the option of blocking specific providers and customers from being paired with each other.

First, you must ensure you have rescheduled or canceled any bookings that the customer has on that provider's schedule, otherwise you will not be able to exclude them from being booked again.

Then, go to: Providers > Providers > [Provider Name]

Once you are on the provider's dashboard, click on the "Settings" tab.

Then, click on the "Block Customer" tab just below.

Under "Exclude Customers", you will find the search box where you can look up the customer's account by name, email, phone number, or address. Click on the customer's name to select their account.

Then, type a note below where it says "Reason" to specify why you are blocking them. This note can only be seen by admin and staff and cannot be seen by the customer or the provider. Then, click the red "Block" button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the customer has been excluded successfully. The customer will be added to the bottom section under the "Block List".

Unblock a Customer
If you ever wish to unblock a customer from a provider, simply scroll down to the "Block List" and click the green "Unblock" button.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to unblock this customer. Select "Yes" to proceed.

The customer can now be booked with the provider again.



How to export provider data
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-export-provider-data

How to export provider data
Learn how to export provider information into a .CSV file.

Last updated on 28 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Locate the provider export tool
Ģ Customize and download a .CSV file with your provider data

Exporting Your Providers
The "Providers" section in your BookingKoala dashboard is one of several areas that contain an export tool. You may want to download a file of your providers for several different reasons:
Ģ Record and analyze your provider data
Ģ Transfer providers to another business account
Ģ Use their information for tax purposes

Whatever the case may be, you can easily export your providers by going to: Providers > Providers

Next, click the green "Export" button on the top right corner of the page.

You will be redirected to the "Export Providers(s)" page. There are several different options to customize which provider data will be exported.

Under "Date Created", you can select "All Time" to export all providers in the system, or "Custom Period" to select a date range for when the account was created.

Under "Status", you can select to download:
Ģ "All Providers", or both active and deactivated provider accounts.
Ģ "Active Providers", or providers that have an active account in your system.
Ģ "Inactive Providers", or provider accounts that have been deactivated.

If you would like to filter your providers based on the tags saved on their profile, click on the box beneath "Tags (optional)". You can type in the tag name or select it from the dropdown menu.

Under "Field(s)", you can check the box next to "Select All" to export all provider fields, or check the boxes next to the fields you'd like to be included.

Once you have selected your preferences, click the blue ōExportö button at the bottom left corner of the page.

You will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the page and your device will automatically download the information as a .CSV file. You have successfully exported your providers!



For providers: How to connect your Stripe account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-providers-can-connect-their-stripe-account

For providers: How to connect your Stripe account
Learn how to create or connect a Stripe account so you can automatically receive payments from a BookingKoala business.

Last updated on 22 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How admin can allow providers like yourself to create/connect a Stripe account
Ģ How to create/connect your Stripe account to receive payments

Getting Started
Before you can receive payments through BookingKoala, the admin must first set up and integrate Stripe Connect. If they have not done so already, they can click here to follow the step-by-step guide.

Admin must also give permission for providers to set up their own Stripe accounts. To enable this, they can go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Providers > Bookings

Expand this section and scroll down to where it says "Would you like to allow your providers the ability to edit their profiles?" and select "Yes".

Then click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Connecting Provider Stripe Accounts
Once the admin has set up and connected their Stripe Connect platform, you are ready to connect a Stripe account so you can receive payments. You can get connected in a few different ways depending on what the admin has enabled.

Ģ Connect a bank account to receive payments
Ģ Connect a debit card to receive payments.
Ģ Manually connect an existing Stripe account or make a new Stripe account and manually connect it to receive payouts.

If you would like the admin to help set up your stripe account, they can click here to view detailed instructions.

For Providers: Connect a Bank Account

To connect your account to BookingKoala, sign in to your BookingKoala provider dashboard in the app or via a web browser. Click on the "Profile" tab, then select the "Payment Processor" tab. The "Bank account" option will be selected automatically.

Scroll down the page and fill out the following fields:
Ģ Legal first name - Your first name as it appears on official documents and IDs.
Ģ Legal last name - Your last name as it appears on official documents and IDs.
Ģ Date of birth - Your legal birth date.
Ģ Routing number - The 9-digit code used to identify your bank in financial transactions.
Ģ Account number - The unique identifier for your personal bank account.

You can locate your routing and account numbers by checking your bank statements, looking at a check for your account, or contacting your bank directly.

For Providers: Connect a Debit Card

To connect your account to BookingKoala, sign in to your BookingKoala provider dashboard in the app or via a web browser. Click on the "Profile" tab, then select the "Payment Processor" tab. Click on the "Debit card" option to continue.

Scroll down the page and fill out the following fields:
Ģ Legal first name - Your first name as it appears on official documents and IDs.
Ģ Legal last name - Your last name as it appears on official documents and IDs.
Ģ Date of birth - Your legal birth date.
Ģ Debit card details - Please include the card number, expiration date, and CVC code.

For Providers: Connect an Existing Stripe Account

First, please check that your account is activated and confirmed, otherwise, payments may be delayed. If the account has verification issues, there will be a read message at the top of your profile when you sign in.

You can correct this by clicking on the top right-most "Profile icon" and select "Profile".

If need be, you can click the "Resend Email" button to resend your verification email, and then check both your inbox and spam folder for an email from support@stripe.com.

Once you locate the email, click the blue "Verify Email Address" button in the email. This will bring you to your Stripe dashboard. If you are already logged in, your account will be verified. If you are not logged in, the account will become verified once you sign in.

To connect your account to BookingKoala, sign in to your BookingKoala provider dashboard in the app or via a web browser. Click on the "Profile" tab, then select the "Payment Processor" tab. Click on the "Manual" option to continue.

Next, click the blue "Connect with Stripe" button in the section below.

A pop-up window will appear. If no window pops up in a web browser, please check your internet browser settings and allow pop-ups from this site.

Next, enter your email address connected to the Stripe account and click the blue "Continue" button.

There will be a login page with a password box. Enter your password, then click the blue "Log in" button.

Next, select the account you would like to connect to and then click the blue "Connect" button.

Give the system a moment to load while the connection takes place. Please do not close or refresh the page until it finishes loading. Once the connection is complete, the pop-up will display this message:

You can now close out this pop-up window. If you refresh the "Payment Processor" tab of your dashboard, you will now see a message that says "Connected with Stripe".

For Providers: Create and Connect a New Stripe Account

First, click on the "Profile" tab. Then, click on the "Payment Processor" tab. In the section below, click on the blue "Connect with Stripe" button.

A pop-up window will appear. If no window pops up in a web browser, please check your internet browser settings and allow pop-ups from this site.

Next, enter your email address into the "Email" box and click the blue "Continue" button.

Then, create a password for the account. This can always be changed later on.

Enter your phone number. This will be used to enable two-step verification, which is required by Stripe. You must enter a valid phone number that you have access to in order to proceed. Then click the blue "Send Text" button to send out the verification code to the phone number.

Once you receive the 6-digit verification code, paste it into the boxes below. The next step will appear automatically upon entering the correct code.

The following page will display an emergency backup code. This code is used in case of an emergency if you need to reset your password but no longer have access to your phone number.

Click Copy Code or Download Code and store in a save place. Then, click the "Next" button.

Next, fill out the following questions about yourself and your business (or the business you are working for).

951 Select your country.
952 Enter your full address.
953 Select the type of business you have.
953.1 Most accounts will be set up as an "individual" if you have not filed paperwork to register as a business.
953.2 If you do have a registered business, select "company" and pick which business structure you use.
954 You can also select "nonprofit organization" if applicable.

Then, click the blue "Continue" button.

955 Enter your first and last name.
956 Enter your best contact email address.
957 Type in your date of birth.
958 Enter your contact phone number.
959 Enter the last four digits of your security/tax id (SSN if in the USA).

Then, click the "Continue" button.

960 Select the industry of the business. If you are not sure, you can select "Software".
961 Enter the business's website URL.
962 Enter a short description of what goods or services are offered by the business. For example, you may write "Commercial and residential cleaning services" if it is a cleaning company, or "Tutoring high schoolers for their ACT or SAT exam" if it is a tutoring business.

Click the "Continue" button.

Next, provide more information about who the customers are, what the business sells, and when customer payments are collected. This can vary depending on the nature of the business.

Click "Continue". Next, connect your checking account to receive automatic direct deposits.

You can click "Enter bank details manually instead" if you would like to manually enter the routing and checking numbers, or, use the search bar to look up your bank and log in to connect your account.

If you are entering the account details manually, a separate pop-up window will appear where you can enter your routing and checking account numbers.

Click the blue "Save" button. You will now see your bank account listed in the pop-up. Select it and click "Continue".

If you are logging into your online bank account, follow the prompts until you reach the "Success" window. Click "Done" to proceed.

Next, enter a: 1. "Statement Descriptor" and a 2. "Shortened Descriptor" into the first and second boxes. This will appear on the customer's credit card they are charged for your services.

Scroll down and enter the 3. "Customer Support Phone Number" and 4. "Customer Support Address", then click the "Continue" button.

You will be brought to a final review page to confirm the details you have entered.

Scroll to the bottom of the window and click the blue "Submit" button to finish creating and connecting your new Stripe account.

Give the system a moment to load while the connection takes place. Please do not close or refresh the page until it finishes loading. Once the connection is complete, the pop-up will display this message:

You can now close out this pop-up window. If you refresh the "Payment Processor" tab of the provider's dashboard, you will now see a message that says "Connected with Stripe". You are now ready to receive direct deposits from the business!



Locate the ABA/routing number
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/locate-your-aba-routing-number

Locate the ABA/routing number
Learn where to locate a bank account's routing/ABA number to link a provider's account for direct deposits.

Last updated on 27 Aug, 2022

In this article, you will learn how to:
Ģ Locate the ABA/routing number for a bank account

Where is the ABA/routing number?
An ABA/routing number is used to specify which financial institution is associated with a bank account. Routing numbers are always 9 digits long and are used to send and receive funds in the United States. In BookingKoala, you may need this number to connect a provider's account to your payment processor for direct deposits.

Routing numbers are 9 digits long and can be found in several places.

963 On the bottom left corner of a check.
964 On the bottom center or left corner of a deposit slip.
965 On most mobile banking apps. The provider can google their bank's name and "Where to find my routing number".
966 On some bank statements. The provider should look for a nine-digit number near other personal information like their name, address, and account number.
967 By calling or visiting your bank. After providing proof of identification and account ownership, most banks should be able to provide the routing number to you.



Enable digital signatures
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/enable-digital-signatures

Enable digital signatures
Learn how the digital signature feature works and how to enable it.

Last updated on 04 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Collect digital signatures using the provider app
Ģ Learn how to enable the digital signature feature

How do digital signatures work?
This feature allows providers to collect a customer's signature for a booking using the BookingKoala for Providers app.

On the day of the service, customers can sign their name in the provider's app once the job has been completed. This is an especially useful tool to reduce the number of disputed charges for your business.

Once enabled, providers can open the Booking Details page in their app and then click the " Signature " button at the bottom center of the page.

On the digital signature page, the customer can sign their name and then click the " Submit " button to save the signature.

It is possible to revisit the signature page and use the " Reset " button to clear the signature if need be.

Where can admin/staff view the signatures?
To look at signatures that have been collected, the admin and staff can go to: Bookings > Job History

If a signature has been collected, there will be a " signature icon " on the right side of the row with the rest of the action buttons.

Hover your cursor over the icon to display the signature.

How to Enable Digital Signatures
To enable the digital signature feature, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Click the plus sign icon to expand the " Bookings " section.

Scroll down to the question, " Would you like to activate the digital signature feature? "

Select " Yes " for this question, then decide if you'd like to add an explanation for the digital signature.

Select " Yes " and enter the message into the text box.



How providers can set their own schedule
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-providers-can-set-their-own-schedule

The purpose of this article is to:
Learn where the admin can enable permission for providers to edit their own schedules, add availability, and take time off
Show how providers can make changes to their schedule or submit schedule requests from their dashboard or submit
Enable Permission for Providers to Update Availability
If you would like your providers to be able to make changes to which days and times they work, you can enable permission for them to update their availability. Once enabled, you can decide whether an admin will need to approve the request or if the changes will be updated automatically.
To set this up, please go to:
Settings > General > Store Options > Provider
Then, click the plus sign icon to expand the "Scheduling" section.
Scroll down until you see the question, "Would you like to allow your providers the ability to set and modify their own schedules?"
Select "Yes" to allow providers to set and modify their own schedules.
Select "No" so providers cannot edit their availability. This means all schedule changes must be made by the admin or staff.
Scroll down until you see the question, "What will happen if there are active booking(s) in the date range when providers try to modify or take a day off?"
Select one of the following options:
Move bookings to the unassigned folder, apply changes and notify the admin
This option will automatically move any of the bookings impacted by the time-off request into the unassigned folder and send a notification to the admin.
Send a request to admin for approval
This option will send a request to the "Manage Availability" section under the "Providers" tab for admin/staff to approve.
Don't move the booking to the unassigned folder and apply changes, active booking will stay assigned to the provider and will show NA (Not Available) tag, Notify admin for updates
This option will update the provider's availability but keep the booking assigned to them as "NA", or "Not Available" and send the admin a notification.
There is also an option to include a tutorial video at the top of this section in the provider's dashboard, "Would you like to include a tutorial video to help your providers with this section?"
Select "Yes" to share your own link or use the BookingKoala default video on how providers can modify their schedules.
Select "No" to hide the tutorial video from their dashboard.
Then, remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of this page.
Now that your settings have been updated, providers will now have the ability to change or request to change their schedules.
Updating Availability from the Provider Dashboard/App
Once an admin has given permission for you to update your schedule, you can log into the BookingKoala for Providers app or their dashboard on a web browser to make changes to your schedule.
Once you log in, click the "Manage Availability" section in the left-side menu.
There are three different sections in the "Manage Availability" section: Calendar View, List View, and Old View.
The first and last sections provide different options as to how providers can add, edit, or remove availability while the List View displays all past and pending schedule requests (if admin approval is required to finalize the change).
Calendar View: Default Availability
If you would like to add or edit your regular recurring availability, click the "Change Availability" button, then select "Default Availability".
A pop-up window will appear displaying each day of the week. Click the blue "Add Shift" button to add a new shift to the day of the week.
Once you've added a shift, they can click the "Location" button (if the business has multiple locations) to select which location(s) this shift will be added for, then click "Apply".
If you would like to copy the shift to other days of the week, click the "Apply to..." button and check the boxes next to the days of the week you'd like to have this shift. Click the "Apply" button to copy the shift to the other day(s).
If you would like to edit a shift length, simply click on the hour and minute boxes to adjust the time. To delete a shift, click the red X icon.
Once you are done setting up your availability, you can click the blue "Send Request" button (if you must submit a request) or the blue "Apply" button (if the business allows updates without admin approval).
Calendar View: Editing Availability for a Date or Date Range
If you want to make changes to a specific date or date range, you can click the "Change Availability" button, then select "Specific Date". A pop-up window will appear, displaying options to select a Date.
Providers can also click on any shift (depicted in green) or pending request (depicted in red) on the calendar to view and edit their availability.
If a shift exists, the start and end times will be displayed. If there is no shift for the date, it will read "Off".
If you would like to add a shift, click the blue "Add Shift" button and then enter the start and end times. Use the "Location" button to select which location(s) the shifts will be added for.
Depending on the business settings, providers may be required to provide more information about their request in the "Reason" box. Once submitted/saved, this information will be saved to the calendar for both the admin and provider.
If bookings are assigned to any of the dates, they will be displayed in the bottom section of the pop-up. You can click the eye icon to open the customer's booking details.
Once you are done editing your shift, you can click the blue "Send Request" button (if you are required to submit a request) or the blue "Apply" button (if the business allows updates without admin approval).
Calendar View: Time Off
If you would like to remove availability for a date or date range, you can click on the "Change Availability" button, then select "Request Time Off".
A pop-up window will appear displaying options to select the date or dates of the time off.
If you service multiple locations, you can select which location(s) you are taking off. If you'd like, you can enter a Reason that will be seen by the admin, staff, and provider on their schedule when viewing these dates in BookingKoala. This may or may not be required depending on the business settings.
If bookings are assigned on any of the dates, they will be displayed in the bottom section of the pop-up. You can click the eye icon to open the customer's booking details.
Once you have finished making adjustments, click the blue "Apply" button if schedule changes do not need admin approval or the blue "Submit Request" if all changes must be submitted as requests.
Providers can also click any shift (depicted in green) on the calendar to remove a shift. To delete a shift from a specific date, click the red X icon next to the working hours and then click the "Apply" or "Submit Request" button.
Once the changes are applied/the request is submitted, you will see a green system notification in the top right corner of the screen, letting you know your availability has been updated successfully. You will now not be able to receive bookings for the dates they submitted.
Even if you or the admin make a change to their default availability, this will not override the original time off request.
List View: Past and Pending Schedule Requests
If the business requires (or previously required) providers to submit new availability as requests, you can click on the "List View" icon to see logs of all pending, approved, and declined requests.
The pending request section displays all requests that have not been answered by the admin. If you would like to update or cancel the request, click on "Options" then "Edit" or "Delete".
Further down the page, there is a section for all approved and declined requests. The status of the request will be displayed below the "Status" column. In addition to the details listed in each column, one can click on the page icon to view any notes added to the original request or responses added by the admin.
Old View: Adding, Editing, and Removing Availability
In addition to the options described above, providers can also use the "Old View" option for setting up and editing their schedules. This option is named as such because it was the original manner in which admin and providers could set up their availability.
To quickly add regular recurring availability, click the blue "Quick Add" button near the top of the page. This option allows providers to create a basic schedule for each day of the week all in one pop-up. The Quick Add tool allows providers to select the start and end times for the selected days of the week, the frequency of the shifts, and the locations.
Once finished making selections, click the blue "Add" button at the bottom of the pop-up. To confirm the availability has been added correctly, you can also select the day of the week and click "Apply" to see all shifts that have been added for that day.
To add or edit regular recurring availability by day of the week, use the "Whole" option and select which locations (or all) the business has more than one location. Next, select the day of the week to set up availability and click the blue "Apply" button. All shifts for that day will be displayed in the section below. If there are no shifts, you will just see an "Add Working Hours" link.
To add a new shift, click "Add Working Hour". Select the start date and leave the end date empty to have the system update all upcoming shifts for this day. Next, select the start time and end time for the shift.
If the business requires all changes to be submitted as a request, the system will show a green notification at the top of the page letting you know the request has been submitted. If the business allows availability changes to take effect immediately, the newly added shifts will be displayed in the section below.
To edit any existing shifts, click the pencil icon to the right of the date you'd like the schedule changes to take effect. For example, if the current date is January 1 and the default availability will be different starting in February, one can edit the first shift in February and all shifts before this will remain unchanged.
Once finished selecting the date, time, and frequency of the shift, click the blue "Save" button. This will submit the request or update your availability depending on the business's settings.
If you want to change your availability for a specific time frame, you can also use the "Select Date Range" option below the day of the week. Once you pick the start and end date for the range, click the blue "Apply" button to view any shifts currently set up for that period.
As always, clicking the "Save" button at the bottom of the pop-up will ensure that the time request is submitted to the admin or updated automatically.
If you want to take time off, you can remove a shift by loading the shifts for any given day and then clicking the trash can icon to delete it from their schedule. A pop-up will ask if you want to delete just this one shift or all shifts moving forward. Some businesses may require a reason to be included when taking off time.
Shifts can be deleted for a selected date range or the entire schedule of the provider. If you want to clear your entire schedule, you can use the red "Clear Schedule" button at the top of the page.
Spot Availability
If the business allows multiple bookings per time spot, you can also adjust the number of bookings they can accept for each start time. To do so, click the "Spots Availability" button near the top right corner of the page.
The Spots Availability pop-up allows the provider to edit the number of booking spots by location if the business services more than one location. If you would like to update your booking spots for your default availability, you can use the "Whole" option and then make modifications to each spot. If you want to update the spots for a specific date, you can instead use the "Specific Date" option and then pick the date from a calendar.
To add more spots, enter a new number into the fields next to each start time, then click the blue "Save" button to the right of the spot's field. When you are finished making changes, the pop-up can be closed using the red "x" icon at the top right corner.
How Admin Can Control Control/Limit Locations, Job Types, and Services
If you would like your providers to be able to make changes to the types of jobs they can be booked for, you can enable permission for them to update their settings.
Just like the availability permission, you can decide whether an admin will need to approve the providers' requests or if the changes will be updated automatically.
Click here to learn how providers can edit their settings.



Enable the "late arrival" message feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/enable-the-late-arrival-message-feature

Enable the "late arrival" message feature
Learn how the "Late Arrival" message feature works and how to set it up.

Last updated on 20 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Utilize the "late arrival" message feature in the provider app
Ģ Learn how to enable the "late arrival" message feature

How does the "late arrival" message feature work?
The "late arrival" message feature allows admin, staff, and optionally, providers to send one-way messages to the customer on the day of the booking using the admin/staff dashboard or BookingKoala for Providers app.

The admin/merchant can set a default "late arrival" message that works for their business. Providers can use the default message, edit it, or write an entirely new message depending on the circumstance.

Once enabled, providers can go to the "Booking Details" page in their app and click on the "Late Arrival Message" button beneath the customer's name and phone number.

They will be redirected to a Message page. Here they can view the default message, edit it, or write a new message. Please note there is a 1200-character limit per message.

Once the message has been reviewed and/or crafted, click the blue "Send" Button at the bottom of the page.

Where can I view sent messages?
Click on the "Sent Messages" tab at the top of the Message page to view previously sent messages to this customer for this booking.

How to Enable and Set Up the "Late Arrival" Message
First, please be sure you have connected and set up your Twilio account so you can send SMS from BookingKoala.

To enable and set up the "late arrival" default message, go to:
Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Bookings" section.

Scroll down until you locate the option "Would you like to enable the "late arrival" message?".

Ģ Select "Admin only" to only allow admin and staff members to use this option to notify clients.
? Admin can send out the message by clicking the "send message" icon to the left of any booking listed in the system.
Ģ Select "Both (admin & provider)" to allow providers to use this feature as well.

Next, enter the default message into the box below.

Use the "View Short Codes" button to add dynamic shortcodes to the message. These will populate with the customer's details when the message is sent.

You can edit the label of the button underneath the "Name of message button".



For providers: How to connect a PayPal account
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/for-providers-how-to-connect-a-paypal-account

For providers: How to connect a PayPal account
Learn how to connect or create and connect a PayPal account with your merchant to get paid via BookingKoala.

Last updated on 27 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How admin can allow providers like yourself to create/connect a PayPal account
Ģ How to create/connect your PayPal account to receive payments

Getting Started
Before you can receive payments through BookingKoala, the admin must first set up and integrate PayPal for provider payments. If they have not done so already, they can click here to follow the step-by-step guide.

Admin must also give permission for providers to set up their own PayPal accounts. To enable this, they can go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Providers > Bookings

Expand this section and scroll down to where it says "Would you like to allow your providers the ability to edit their profiles?" and select "Yes".

Then click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Connecting Your PayPal Account to BookingKoala
First, if you don't have an account, you will need to create a new PayPal account. You can make a personal or a business account.

Next, go to the BookingKoala for Providers app or open your dashboard in a web browser and click on the "Payment Processor" tab near the top left side of the app or the center tab on the desktop. If you are in the app, the "Payment Processor" button is located under the "My Profile" tab.

Enter your Paypal email address into the box beneath "Paypal Email ID". Please be sure the email you are connecting to their profile is the same email address you use to sign up/log in with your PayPal account. Then, click the green "Connect" button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, confirming that the account has been connected successfully. You are now connected with the merchant's account and will be able to receive funds from them in the Payments section.

The "Connect" button will have changed into an "Update" button.

Make sure you hit the green "Connect" button which then will turn to "Update" after the accounts are connected.

If you ever get a new PayPal account, you can always update that information by entering your new email address into the box and clicking "Update".



Provider app overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/provider-app-overview

Provider app overview
Learn how to locate and use all of the features in the BookingKoala for Providers app.

Last updated on 01 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where to download the BookingKoala for Providers app
Ģ What features are included in the app

Where can I download the BookingKoala for Providers app?
Ģ Click here to download the app from Google Play for Android devices.
Ģ Click here to download the app from the App Store for Apple devices.

Logging In
To view your dashboard on the BookingKoala for Providers app, you will begin by logging in with the email address you used to create your provider account with your company.

If you work for more than one company that uses BookingKoala, you will be prompted on the next step to choose which business you are logging into.

Once you select a business, click the blue Next button and you will be prompted to enter the password you created for that account. You can also use the Forgot Password link to reset your password if you've forgotten it. Once your password is entered, click the Sign In button to be directed to your dashboard.

Navigating the Provider App
The BookingKoala for Providers app was created to help service industry workers who work for companies with the BookingKoala software to manage their jobs, payments, schedules, and more all from one place. The app contains multiple sections:

Ģ Dashboard - View past, current, and upcoming jobs in calendar view or list view.
Ģ Unassigned Bookings - If permitted, view unassigned jobs searching for a provider or team to accept them.
Ģ Manage Availability - Update or submit requests to update your availability.
Ģ Settings - Update or submit requests to update your job acceptance settings.
Ģ Profile - Edit your personal information, reset your password, and connect a payment processor to your account to receive payments via the app.
Ģ My Drive - If permitted, download, view, and upload files to share with the merchant.
Ģ Payments - View records of all your payments including a breakdown of jobs per each paycheck.
Ģ Reviews - View all ratings and reviews left by customers on your bookings.
Ģ Switch Company - If you work for more than one company that uses BookingKoala, switch between dashboards to view jobs for another company.
Ģ Help Center - Visit the BookingKoala Help Center to read more articles like this one.
Ģ Logout - Log out of the app and back in again if you are ever experiencing issues with the software (such as missing an update).
Ģ Language - Some merchants may have the BookingKoala for Providers app in multiple languages. If so, you will see a "Language" button that leads to a "Select Language" page.

To navigate between these sections, click the sandwich icon in the top left corner of the app.

Provider Dashboard
As mentioned above, the provider dashboard will display all of your completed and upcoming jobs. Bookings are displayed in a calendar view by default. The calendar view will display a calendar of this week or this month at the top of the screen, and then you can click a date to view booking details in the section below.

There is also a list view for those who would like to see their bookings in a sequential list. The list view allows you to navigate between different sections for Today's, Upcoming, and Job History bookings.

If you are a member of one or more teams, or if you work as a team member and also as an individual, you can switch between teams and individual views using the team icon at the bottom right corner of the app. Then, use the dropdown menu to select which team (or individual mode) you would like to view jobs for.

To view more information about a job, including accessing features like the clock in/out buttons, checklists, digital signature feature, feedback feature, job notes, job media, travel directions, and more, click on the View Detail button beneath the job summary.

Once inside the Booking Details page, you may have access to the following features:
Ģ View Job On Map - View directions between your current location and the job location (you must give location permissions to the BookingKoala for Providers app to use this feature).
Ģ Late Arrival Message - Send a default late arrival message to the customer, or craft a message of your own making. You can also view sent messages with timestamps to see what you previously messaged the customer. Click here to learn more about how to set up and use this feature.
Ģ Get Directions - Open the default map app on your phone and get directions to the booking site with one click.
Ģ On The Way - Begin the clock in/out process by signaling you are on your way to the location. If you are already on site, click "On The Way" and then "Clock In" right away to begin tracking the job time. Click here to see our guide on clocking in and out with the BookingKoala for Providers app. Admin can activate the clock in/out feature by clicking here.
Ģ Checklist - If the merchant has chosen to, there will be a checklist available to help guide you through the booking duties. Click here to see our guide on how to use checklists in the BookingKoala for Providers app.
Ģ Job Media - Upload images and videos that pertain to the job. Depending on the merchant's settings, customers may or may not be able to view the media. Please confer with your company if job media is shared with the customer and if there are any specifications such as tags to use when uploading pictures and videos.
Ģ Signature - The digital signature feature works by allowing you to capture a customer's signature using the BookingKoala for Providers app. Just click the "Signature" button to open the signature screen and click "Confirm" once the customer has signed. You can also reset the signature if needed. Click here to learn more about digital signatures.
Ģ Feedback - The provider feedback feature was created to allow providers to collect feedback on behalf of the customer. Click the "Feedback" button to access a Rating & Review page. Admin can activate this feature by clicking here.

Unassigned Bookings
The second section from the top of the app menu is the Unassigned Bookings section. If your merchant uses this feature, they can list unassigned jobs for all their providers to view and grab. Jobs may or may not be shown to providers based on personal settings and availability, so it is best to check with the merchant before assuming that unassigned bookings will be within your working area, job expertise, etc.

Click the "View Detail" button to see more information about the job including payment, and click the "Grab Job" button to add the job to your schedule.

Manage Availability
Depending on the merchant settings, you may be unable to manage your availability or send availability requests. However, if you have one of these permissions enabled, you can use this section to change your schedule. Whether you need to take time off for vacation, adjust your weekly recurring availability, or add days you can work, the Manage Availability section has options for all.

Click here to view our guide on how to manage provider availability.

Settings
Like like "Manage Availability" section, the merchant settings may or may not allow for you to make or request changes to your job settings. However, if permitted, you will be able to view and make changes to the "Industry" and "Form" sections that impact the types of jobs you get.

Click here to learn how to edit your industry and form settings.

Profile
The profile section of the provider app has three purposes. It is a 1) place where you can update your personal information, 2) where you connect your payment processor if you get paid via BookingKoala*, and 3) a place where you can reset your password if you have forgotten it.

968 Edit Profile
The Edit Profile button allows you to edit your:
Ģ Profile picture
Ģ Name
Ģ Email address
Ģ Phone number
Ģ Gender
Ģ Address

969 Payment Processor
The Payment Processor button allows you to connect a payment processor account to receive payments via BookingKoala. Currently, there are two different payment processors that allow providers to connect their accounts for payment: Stripe and PayPal.

Click here for instructions on how to connect or create and connect a provider Stripe account.
Click here for instructions on how to connect or create and connect a provider PayPal account.

*If you have already used the Payment Processor button to connect an account, you can use the button to verify the connection or disconnect and try again.

970 Reset Password
The reset password button helps you reset your password if you are logged into the app but do not recall what your password is.

My Drive
When enabled, the My Drive section of the app allows you to share files with your merchant and vice versa.
Depending on your merchant's permissions, you may only be permitted to download files but not upload files of your own.

Payments
The Payment Logs section is where you can see all of your payments per pay period. Use the search field at the top of the section to search fo a specific date range.

Click on a paycheck to view more details including the date range and a breakdown of the jobs in each pay period.
Click on "Learn More" for a specific booking to view a detailed payment breakdown for an individual job.

Reviews
The Reviews section allows you to see all of the ratings and reviews you have received as a provider.
Each review will include the service date, the review date, the customer's name, and a star rating.

Switch Company
As alluded to earlier in this article, it is possible to use the same email address and work for different companies that use BookingKoala. If this is the case, you can use the "Switch Company" section to select a different company and then log in with your password.

Help Center
The Help Center has a Providers section which contains helpful articles on logging in, setting up your schedule and settings, connecting payment accounts, and more. Type in a word or phrase and click the search button to explore what the Help Center has to offer.

Logout
If you have multiple email addresses across multiple BookingKoala accounts, you will need to log in and out using this logout option. The "Switch Company" option only works if you are using the same email address for multiple companies.

Language
At the very bottom of the left-side menu, you may have a "Language" option. If so, this means the merchant has translated the app into another language. If you speak multiple languages and want to see what options are available, click where it says "Language" and then select a language from the options available.



Provider sign up
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/provider-sign-up

Provider sign up
While granting admins the authority they need to uphold a high level of service, this procedure is intended to be straightforward and easy for providers to use. You have the option of requiring providers to go through an approval process or to sign up on their own.

Last updated on06 Aug, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How provider can sign up on their own
Ģ How the admin can oversee and control the provider sign-up process

Provider Sign-Up Overview
The provider sign-up process is tailored to your business needs, with full flexibility for both providers and admin.

1. Merchant Settings:

1.1. Allow Providers to Sign Up Independently

The admin has the option to enable or disable sign-ups for providers.

The " Can providers sign up for an account on their own? " option should be set to " Yes " in order to permit provider sign-ups.

If set to ō No ö, then as usual, only the admin can add the providers.

1.2. Decide the Level of Access for Provider Sign-Up

Once provider sign-up is enabled, the admin can determine  ō What kind of access would you like to give for provider signup? ö i.e. what happens after a provider submits their details:

Ģ Give full access:

? Like any other active provider, the provider is automatically added to the system and has instant access to the platform.
Ģ Need approval of admin:

? The provider's request to sign up won't be accepted right away. Rather, the sign-up request needs to be reviewed, approved, or denied by the admin.

1.3. Control the Hiring Module Access

Whether to add the recently signed up provider to the Hiring Module right away is up to the admin, irrespective of the access the provider will have on sign up.

If ō Should we add a provider inside the hiring module after signing up for an account? ö is ō Yes ö, the admin can select the funnel where the provider will be placed after signing up.

If the admin does not have any setup for hiring, i.e. the admin has never used hiring before. Then the admin first needs to check hiring,and then select the funnel in which the provider is to be added on sign up.

2. Steps for the Provider Signup:

2.1. Fill Out the Provider Sign-Up Form

Providers will need to select the provider radio button to begin their sign-up.

They will fill in their required details, such as name, contact information, and any other necessary fields.

2.2. Verify Email

After submitting their details, the provider will receive an email verification link.

They must click on the " Verify Email " button to confirm their email address.

2.3. Login

Upon email verification, the provider will be directed to the login page to enter their username and password.

Then click on sign up .

If ō Can providers sign up for an account on their own? ö is set to ō Yes ö then the new provider will be created and simply logged into their account, i.e. the provider will have immediate access to their account.

Otherwise, proceed to the next step.

2.4. Review provider sign-up request (if applicable)

The admin is required to review provider sign-up requests, under the Providers > Sign-up Request , where the admin will get the listing of all the provider sign-up requests .

2.4.1. Admin Actions for Provider Sign-Up Requests

Ģ Approve provider sign-up request

The admin can approve the sign-up request by simply clicking on the approve button.

A confirmation prompt will appear, and once confirmed, the provider is added to the system as an active provider.

Ģ Reject provider sign-up request

The admin can also reject the provider sign-up request by simply clicking on the decline, in the provider sign-up requests .

Admin can provide a rejection reason for future reference, and choose whether to notify the provider via email or SMS.

3. Signed up provider under the hiring module:

If ō Should we add a provider inside the hiring module after signing up for an account? ö is set to ō Yes ö, then the signed up provider will be added into hiring as a prospect , into the funnel selected  for provider sign up.

Click here to learn more about the Hiring Module.

Note: The funnel selected for provider sign-up cannot be deleted or archived until the admin changes it in the store options.

4. Staff Permissions:

The admin can select whether the staff member can :

Ģ Edit Access : Staff can approve or reject provider sign-ups.
Ģ View Access : Staff can view the list of provider sign-up requests but cannot take action.
Ģ Blocked Access : Staff cannot access the provider sign-up requests.

These permission settings ensure that only authorized staff have the ability to review and approve provider sign-ups.

5. Website Builder & Themes

You can design your sign-up form with the help of the website builder & themes section.

Simply go to Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme.

Here, select the Sign Up page and you can design your own sign-up page.

6. Notifications

6.1. Email Notifications

6.1.1. Admin Emails

Admin can get the emails regarding:

Ģ Whenever a provider is directly signed up into the system.
Ģ When the provider tries to sign up, the active provider as per plan permissions has been reached.
Ģ When there is a new provider sign-up request.

These notifications can be accessed from Settings > Notifications > Emails > Admin > Signup.

6.1.2. Provider Emails

The following emails can also be sent to the signing-up provider:

Ģ ProviderÆs email verification.
Ģ ProviderÆs sign-up request has been submitted and awaits adminÆs approval.
Ģ ProviderÆs sign-up request has been rejected.

These notifications are accessible from Settings > Notifications > Emails > Provider > Account.

6.2. Sms Notifications

6.2.1. Admin Sms

Admin can get the SMS regarding:

Ģ Whenever a provider is directly signed up into the system.
Ģ When the provider tries to sign up, active providers as per plan permissions have been reached.
Ģ When there is a new provider sign-up request.

These notifications can be accessed from Settings > Notifications > SMS > Admin > Signup.

6.2.2. Provider SMS

The following SMS can also be sent to the signing-up provider:

Ģ ProviderÆs sign-up request has been submitted and awaits adminÆs approval.
Ģ ProviderÆs sign-up request has been rejected.

These notifications can be accessed from Settings > Notifications > SMS > Provider > Account.

6.3. Staff Notifications

Admin can select whether the following email notifications should be sent to the particular staff member or not:

Ģ Whenever a provider is directly signed up into the system.
Ģ When the provider tries to sign up, active providers as per plan permissions have been reached.
Ģ When there is a new provider sign up request.

These notifications are accessible from Settings > Staff > Staff Members > [particular staff memberÆs profile] > Notifications.

In Summary
With the Provider Sign-Up feature, you have the flexibility to streamline the sign-up process for providers while maintaining the necessary admin oversight. Whether you choose to allow providers to sign up independently or require approval, the system gives you full control to manage your provider network efficiently.

For any further assistance, please feel free to contact our support team at support@bookingkoala.com .



Divide Provider Length
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/divide-provider-length-8b0da758

Title: Divide Provider Length

Overview:
The "Divide Provider Length" enhances the flexibility of booking time allocation across multiple providers. Previously, there were two options for assigning booking lengths to providers:
Ģ Full Assignment: The total booking time is fully assigned to each provider, regardless of the number of providers involved.
Ģ Equal Division: The booking length is equally divided among all the providers.
With the new feature, merchants can now assign individual length to each provider for a specific booking. This allows for more precise scheduling based on the specific requirements of each provider.

How does it work?
Ģ Override Time for Each Provider: To give each provider a different booking length, the merchant must check the "Override each provider's time" checkbox. This will show separate time fields for each provider in the booking.
Ģ Independent Time Selection: After enabling the checkbox, you can manually set the booking time for each provider. This will let you assign custom times based on each providerÆs schedule or service needs.

Store Settings: Managing Provider Changes
Navigation Path: Go to Settings > General > Store Options > Provider
Step-by-step instruction: Click the plus sign icon to expand the "Bookings" section.

Settings and Scenarios:
Question 1: Handling Provider Changes (If you have overridden the provider's time for a booking, and then you either manually change the provider or make changes to the booking that automatically result in a provider change, should the overridden time be reset or kept?)
Ģ Reset the overridden time: If you manually change the provider, or if an automatic provider change occurs (e.g., a provider accepts or rejects an invitation), you can choose to reset the overridden time. This option ensures that it resets the overridden time and provider's length again pick from the booking.
Ģ Keep the overridden time: If you prefer to keep the overridden time even after a provider change; you will need to manage it carefully in subsequent scenarios.

Question 2: Managing Increased Providers (If the number of providers increases from what was previously selected, how should the overridden time be managed?)
Note: This applies if you selected "Keep the overridden time" for Question 1.
Ģ Reset the overridden time: When the number of providers increases, resetting the overridden time might be the simplest approach to avoid confusion with the new provider.
Ģ Divide overridden time equally: Alternatively, you can divide the overridden time equally among all providers. This ensures a fair distribution of time.
Ģ Set previously selected members' values to current providers & new values for increased members: If you want to keep track of previous settings, you can transfer the overridden times to the current providers and set new values for any additional members.

Question 3: Default Value for Increased Members (What should be the default value for the increased members?)
Note: This applies if you chose "Set previously selected members' values to current providers & new values for increased members" for Question 2.
Ģ Zero (0): You can set the default value for new members to zero. This means they won't have any overridden time initially.
Ģ Provider length: Alternatively, you can set the default value to the length of the provider's schedule. This ensures new members have a consistent time setting with the current provider schedule.

Question 4: Managing Decreased Providers (If the number of providers decreases from what was previously selected, how should the overridden time be managed?)
Ģ Reset the overridden time: When the number of providers decreases, you might choose to reset the overridden time to avoid mismatches with the reduced team.
Ģ Divide overridden time equally: Another option is to divide the overridden time equally among the remaining providers or members.

TimeLog: Enhanced Time Update Options
Feature: When a booking is completed and the merchant updates the time via TimeLog, the merchant can decide whether the time update should affect the provider(s) or not and even assign separate times for different providers.
Navigation Path: Go to Bookings -> Booking Time Logs
Step-by-step instruction: Scroll to the right of the row until you see a grey "Pending" button below the "Status" column. You will see a drop-down menu with options for approving the time log once the job has been completed. A confirmation pop-up will appear.

Question: Would you like to override the provider's time with the updated time on booking?
Ģ Yes: Choosing "Yes" will apply the updated time from the TimeLog to the provider(s). This means that the provider's time will be adjusted to reflect the new time as per the update.
Ģ No: Selecting "No" will leave the providerÆs time unchanged, even if there is an updated time in the TimeLog. This option allows you to keep the existing time for the provider(s) without any modifications.



11. Staff
Articles in this collection (4):

971 Using the unassigned folder
972 Staff accounts and permissions
973 Deactivate, reactivate, or delete a staff member
974 My staff member can't add new bookings



Using the unassigned folder
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/using-the-unassigned-folder

Using the unassigned folder
Learn how to cover jobs, maintain a waitlist, and promote bookings via the unassigned folder.

Last updated on 17 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How the unassigned folder works
Ģ Different uses of this feature

Getting Started
To begin, weÆd recommend enabling your providersÆ email and SMS notifications to alert them when new jobs are added to the folder. First, make sure your email and/or SMS settings are set up.

Next, be sure the following email templates are enabled: Settings > Notifications > Email > Providers > Unassigned Booking and Settings > Notifications > SMS > Providers > Unassigned Booking

This way, your workers will be made aware of each opportunity as it comes in. You can also disable providersÆ ability to see bookings in the unassigned folder if you do not want them to be able to see or add these jobs to their schedule. If you are comfortable allowing them to pick up jobs as needed, they can browse this area in their dashboard and view booking details to help with their decision process.

How does the unassigned folder work?
The "unassigned folder", found under the Bookings menu**,** utilizes your providerÆs settings and availability to show the jobs that they are not yet booked for, regardless of whether they are marked as ōavailableö or not.

As long as no other bookings are in the way, your providers can add a booking to their schedule, even on their days off. As soon as a job is picked up or added by an admin to a providerÆs schedule, the booking will disappear from the unassigned folder so no other worker can grab it.

You can also set up your unassigned folder so that providers can see all jobs, even those outside of your settings.

How To Utilize the Unassigned Folder
A new booking can be placed in the unassigned folder by navigating to the Choose Service Provider section in your booking form by checking the box next to "Waiting List".

If you are moving an existing appointment into the unassigned folder, click the blue ōRescheduleö button, then you can select ōAll Future Appointmentsö if you are moving the entire recurring service in the folder, or ōThis Booking Onlyö if you are only looking to move a single job.

You can select the desired date and arrival time and even assign a priority level of ōLowö, ōMediumö, or ōHighö.

Once you have made the necessary modifications, click the blue ōUpdate Bookingö to complete the move.

To view all upcoming jobs in the section, go to: Bookings > Unassigned Bookings

Like all of the various sections under the Bookings menu, you can view the jobs in list view, calendar view, or map view.

Viewing the Unassigned Folder
Each booking in the unassigned folder has several different tools to help with tracking, promoting, and assigning the job. These tools are located in different places depending on how you are viewing the unassigned bookings.

While in list view, the action buttons will be located to the left of the booking details.
In thecalendar view, the details and action buttons will be located in the pop-up sidebar when you click on the booking in the calendar.
Inmap view, click the flag on the map to view the booking details and see the action buttons in the side menu.

Action Buttons

The triangle icon allows you to assign a priority to a booking if you'd like. All bookings submitted to the waitlist by customers come at the lowest priority level, signified by the color green. They will also include an orange "WL", or "waiting list" tag added to the left of the priority.

Bookings added to the unassigned folder by admin and staff will be set to orange for medium priority by default. You can click the icon to elevate the priority and select the red icon to signify the highest level of priority.

The next icon is the "details" icon.
If you hover over this icon, it will display the basic details about the booking, including the booking ID, industry, service category, and frequency.

Next to this is the "assign provider" icon. By clicking this icon, you can view a list of all available and NA, or ōnot availableö, providers.

Available providers have an opening in their schedule that can accommodate that booking's time and settings. ōNot Availableö or NA providers are not marked as available in the system, however, they do not have any other bookings or obligations in the system that would overlap with this bookingÆs time and length.

This allows you to assign work to your providerÆs schedule, even if they originally were not set to work that day. Providers that have conflicts with the booking time, length, or settings will not be displayed in the Check Compatibility section.

The following icon is the envelope icon. This allows you to send notifications to your providers to alert them to a job in the unassigned folder.

You can select providers and teams from both the available and not available lists, add a custom message, and then decide if youÆd like to send the alert via email, SMS, app alert, or all three. When the alert is received, the provider can log in to their dashboard and grab the job if they are interested.

If youÆve already sent out an invitation using this icon, a clock icon will appear. This will automatically resend your original invitation and remind all the providers that the job is still available.

You can decide to include a new message, and select how the reminder will be delivered.

The pen icon can be used to edit and open the booking form, and the trashcan icon is used to cancel the booking. When you click to cancel a booking, a pop-up window will appear.

If you have set up a cancelation fee, you can check the box next to "Don't charge cancelation fee" to exclude it. You can exclude notifications from being sent out to the customer by checking the box next to "Exclude notifications from being sent". The notifications you exclude are listed below for your reference.



Staff accounts and permissions
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/staff-overview

Staff accounts and permissions

Learn how staff accounts work in BookingKoala, including how to add a new account and set up permissions for each staff member.

Last updated on 07 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are staff accounts
Ģ How to add a new staff member
Ģ How to set up staff permissions

What are staff accounts?
If you have office employees or virtual assistants that help with running your day-to-day operations, you can create staff accounts to give them access to the backend of your BookingKoala account. As the admin, you can control each staff member's permissions to view and/or edit various parts of the software.

Add a Staff Account
To create a new staff account, you will begin by going to:
Settings > Staff > Add Staff Member

There is also a blue "Add New" button that is located at the top of the Staff Members section. Both options lead to the same place.

You will be redirected to the "Add Staff" page.

You must fill out at least a first name, last name, and email address to save a new staff account. You can also include a profile photo, address, phone number(s), and gender of the staff member. There is also a section to add private notes that can only be seen by the admin.

At the bottom of the screen, there is an option to "Send Invitation". This correlates with the "New Account" email template located under:
Settings > Notifications > Email > Staff > Account

Please be sure this template is toggled to "Enabled" under the Notifications section if you'd like to send a notification inviting your staff member to create a password and log into their account.

If you don't want to send the "New Account" notification to your staff member now, you can always uncheck this box and send it at a later time from the staff member's dashboard.

Once you are done filling out the staff member's basic information, click the blue "Add" button to generate the staff account.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know the staff account has been saved successfully, and you will be redirected to the "Staff Members" list.

Setting Up Staff Permissions
As mentioned earlier, the system admin can control which areas of the software each staff member has access to. To view or set up a staff member's permissions, you will go to:
Settings > Staff > Staff Members

Select "Options", then "View" to open the staff member's dashboard.

At the top of the page, click on the "Permission" tab.

You will see a list of all possible permissions in the space below. Many permissions have three options: Block, View, or Edit.

Ģ When permissions are blocked, the staff member will not have access to that area or type of action in the system.
Ģ When permissions are set to view, the staff member can look at that area of the software but cannot make any changes.
Ģ When permissions are set to edit, the staff member can both view and modify sections in the software.

Permissions for some sections, like the "Reports" section, only have options to block or view. This is because reports cannot be edited by any type of user, including the admin. All reports are internally connected based on actions that are automatically taken from customers, providers, and staff accounts based on bookings, ratings, payments, trends, etc.

Once you are finished making your selections, please click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the staff member's permissions have been updated successfully.



Deactivate, reactivate, or delete a staff member
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-deactivate-or-delete-a-staff-member

Deactivate, reactivate, or delete a staff member
Learn how to deactivate, activate, or delete a staff account.

Last updated on 16 Aug, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Deactivate a staff member's account
Ģ Delete a staff member's account
Ģ Reactivate a staff account

Deactivate a Staff Account
If a staff member is no longer working for your company or is taking a leave of absence, you can always deactivate their account. This means that the staff member will not be able to log in and access their dashboard.

To deactivate a staff member, please go to: Settings > Staff > Staff Members

Select " Options ", then " Deactivate " to the right of the staff member's name.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to deactivate the staff member. There is also a box to check if you would like to exclude the deactivation notification from being sent to the staff member. To proceed, click the blue " Yes " button.

Once saved, a green system notification will confirm that the account has been deactivated and it will be moved into the " Deactivated Staff " section.

Delete a Staff Account
If you would like to permanently delete a staff account, this will also remove all records of that account from the system logs. If you are sure that you do not need this information, you can proceed by going to:

Settings > Staff > Deactivated Staff

Select " Options ", then " Delete " to the right of the staff member's name.

A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to delete the account. Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page letting you know the account has been deleted successfully.

Activate a Staff Account
You can easily reactivate a deactivated staff account by going to:

Settings > Staff > Deactivated Staff

Select " Options ", then " Activate " to the right of the staff member's name.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to reactivate the staff member. There is also a box to check if you would like to exclude the activation notification from being sent to the staff member. To proceed, click the blue " Yes " button.

Once saved, a green system notification will confirm that the account has been activated again and it will be moved into the " Staff Members " section.



My staff member can't add new bookings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/my-staff-member-can-t-add-new-bookings

My staff member can't add new bookings
Learn why your staff is having trouble adding new bookings.

Last updated on 04 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Understand why your staff member cannot add new bookings

Add Booking Permissions
If your staff member is unable to schedule or edit a booking, you can easily correct this under the permissions section of their staff dashboard.

To view these settings, please go to:

Settings > Staff > Staff Members

Click in " Options ", then " View " to be directed to the staff member's dashboard.

Next, click on the " Permission " tab at the top of the page.

The very first permission on the list is the " Add Booking " page. If you would like staff members to be able to schedule new services, make sure their permission is set to " Edit ".

Then, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page.

Your staff member will now be able to schedule new bookings in the system!



12. Bookings
Articles in this collection (9):

975 Price and job length adjustments
976 System tags & labels
977 The unassigned folder and waitlist settings
978 Send a quote
979 Booking time logs
980 How do cancellation fees work?
981 Add a booking
982 Using the add payment feature
983 Private booking notes



Price and job length adjustments
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/price-and-job-length-adjustments

Price and job length adjustments
Learn how to manually override the pricing parameter and job length for any booking.

Last updated on 20 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to explain:
Ģ What are price and job length adjustment
Ģ How to apply an adjustment
Ģ How an adjustment impacts scheduling and payment

What are price and job length adjustments?
The BookingKoala booking form has been designed to make setting up your price and time estimates easy so you or your customer can simply select the options that fit their needs to get a quote. However, there may be situations where you may want to override the pricing and/or time length estimated by your booking form.

For example, some businesses have changed their rates throughout the years. A business may honor lower rates using a price adjustment to retain the services of a long-time customer. A price adjustment overrides all of the system's pricing parameters (Except for sales tax) and updates the service total. A service total adjustment is the booking's price before any discounts, coupons, or taxes have been applied.

Or, you may learn that a certain recurring service takes the provider more or less time than the system has estimated. You could update the time it takes by applying a job length adjustment. A job length adjustment overrides the system's time estimate based on the pricing parameters and updates the total job length.

Adjusting Booking Price and Job Length
To apply a service total, price, or job length adjustment, click the pencil icon or use the Edit button to edit /open any booking.

Scroll down until you see the " Booking Adjustments " section. This is normally located just above the " Choose Service Provider "/" Assigned To " section where you select the provider, date, and time.

To override the automated pricing for this job BEFORE taxes, coupons, or discounts , check the box next to " Do you want to adjust service total? " Then, enter the new price into the field below.

In the Payment Summary box on the upper right side or bottom of the booking form, you will see the service total has been adjusted.

To override the automated pricing for this job BEFORE taxes but AFTER coupons or discounts , check the box next to " Do you want to adjust price? " Then, enter the new price into the field below.

On the Payment Summary box on the upper right side or bottom of the booking form, you will see a new line for the adjusted total.

Below the price adjustment option, there is another option for ō Do you want to adjust time? ö Check this box to override the booking's estimated length of time.

The Booking Summary on the top right corner of the page will automatically reflect whatever time is entered into the hours and minutes boxes.

Please note : You can adjust the time for all pricing schemes EXCEPT hourly bookings/booking form 5. This is because the system already is using a manual time adjustment to calculate the price.

Once you have entered an adjustment into the system, be sure to click the green " Save Booking " or " Update Booking " button from the right-side menu.

Pro Tip: Always be sure to check whether you have selected " This Booking Only " or " All Future Appointments " before updating a booking so you know whether you are updating one or every booking in a recurring service.

Impact of Booking Price and Time Adjustments
Because the price and time adjustments override certain parts of your booking form, it is important to understand how they affect the rest of the booking details

Provider Selection and Availability

Whenever you make time length changes on page one of the booking form, the system will have you reconfirm the availability of the scheduled provider(s). This principle applies to any time-length adjustments applied to a booking. In some circumstances, a provider may become available or unavailable depending on the length of your booking.

If the same provider is still available, you can just select the desired date and time again, then click the blue " Update Booking " button on the left.

Service Total

When a price adjustment is applied to a booking, it will override the automatically generated service total that was calculated by your booking form. The price adjustment overrides the service total as well as any discounts that have been applied by frequencies and coupon codes . Sales tax will NOT be overridden.

Whenever a price adjustment is being used, the Payment Summary bo will continue an extra line called " Adjusted Amount " so you can see the amount before any tax is applied (if applicable).

Provider service payment

By default, the system will pay your providers out of the service total and NOT the adjusted amount you've entered into a booking. This is to ensure that any special deals or rates you are offering a customer do not impact their payment as determined by the booking form.

This is especially important if you work with contractors, who have pre-defined terms of how much pay they should receive for any given job type.

However, if you DO want to pay your providers out of the adjusted price (when has been checked off), you can easily change that under your Provider Store Options. Please go to:

Settings > General > Store Options > Provider > Bookings

Scroll down to the question "Would you like the system to calculate the provider's pay based on the original or the adjusted total on your bookings?" and select " Adjusted amount ".

Be sure to click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page to update your settings.

Customer tips and parking

Price adjustments will impact all percentage-based tips or parking fees , but will NOT impact flat-fee-based tips and fees.

Ģ For example, if you apply a 20% tip to a $100 job, the tip amount will be $20. If you use the price adjustment to change the total to $80, the tip amount will now be $16.
Ģ When a flat fee of $5 is selected for a provider's parking payment, the total is not impacted by the adjusted rate.



System tags & labels
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/tags

System tags & labels
Learn more about all the tags and labels in the system and what each means.

Last updated on 16 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Understand what each tag or label in the system means
Ģ Learn how to add your own tags for customers and providers

System Tags and Labels
There are several "tags", or labels, that are found throughout your BookingKoala dashboard. These help with quickly identifying certain information about a booking.

Booking Tags and Labels

When you view any of the booking sections, such as "Today's Bookings", "Upcoming Bookings", or "Unassigned Bookings", you may see the following tags:

Ģ New customer - This tag can be found to the right of a new customer's name.
Ģ NA - This stands for "Not Available". This tag is displayed below a provider or team's name if a job is assigned to them outside of their regular availability.
? For example, if a provider does not have working hours for a booking or it overlaps with another, the provider is considered unavailable by the system.
? Click here to learn more about the "NA" tag and what factors cause it to be added to a booking.
Ģ Team of [#] - This tag lets you know a team has been assigned to the booking.
Ģ Pair - This tag lets you know a pair of providers have been assigned to the booking.
? Hover over the tag with your curser to view which providers have been assigned.
Ģ SA - This stands for "Service Area". This tag is added beneath the "Location" column to let you know that you are traveling to the customer's location.
Ģ ML - This stands for "Merchant Location". This tag is added beneath the booking location to let you know that the job is taking place at your business's location.
Ģ Pending - This tag is added to completed jobs that have not been charged yet. You can view a full list of your pending charges by going to Bookings > Booking Charges.

Pending Charges Tags and Labels

When you go to the "Booking Charges" section under "Bookings", you will see the followings tags and labels:

Ģ Confirmed - You will see this tag under the "Status" column on the Pending Charges page. This is added once a booking has been completed, letting you know it is ready to be charged.
Ģ + - The red plus sign icon means that this booking is an hourly job.
? If there is not a green "Completed" tag below, click the plus sign to confirm the provider's hours for the job. A pop-up window will appear where you can confirm or update the working hours, then click "Save".

Customer and Provider Tags
In addition to the system's tags, you can create and add your own custom tags to customer and provider profiles. These tags will be displayed below the provider or customer's name when you are looking at their bookings in the system.

Only admin and staff can view these tags. Providers and customers will not be able to see any tags you have added to either type of profile.

In the booking form, you will see customer tags that have been saved when using the "Existing Customer" option.

You will also see a provider's tags when you are scheduling them.

To add a tag to your customer or provider's profile, you will need to go to their dashboard. This can be done by clicking on the customer or provider name from:
Ģ Providers > Providers
Ģ Customers > Customers

Once you are on the provider or customer's dashboard, locate the "Tags" section just below the various action buttons on the left side of the screen.

To add a tag, type a word or phrase into the "Add a tag" box and then hit the enter key.

You can also select a tag you've used before from the drop-down list.

Tags are saved automatically when entered or clicked on, so no further steps are necessary. You can now view the customer or provider tags through your BookingKoala dashboard.

To view a summary of how many tags are in use, go to:
Ģ Settings > General > Tags

From here, you can view a comprehensive list of all your tags in use, including how many customers and providers are tagged respectively. In the top right corner, click the Add New button to add a new tag to the list. You can also select Options to Edit or Delete an existing tag.



The unassigned folder and waitlist settings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/the-unassigned-folder-and-waitlist-settings

The unassigned folder and waitlist settings
Learn how to create a waitlist for your customers and prioritize provider-less jobs for coverage.

Last updated on 10 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are the unassigned folder and waitlist features
Ģ How to allow your providers to view the unassigned folder
Ģ How to override provider settings to let them view all jobs in the unassigned folder
Ģ Where to enable/disable permissions to view the unassigned folder for individual providers or teams
Ģ How to enable the customer waitlist feature
Ģ How providers can accept jobs from the unassigned folder

What is the unassigned folder/waitlist?
Whenever a booking has not yet been assigned to a specific provider, it will be placed in the Unassigned Folder.

Once a booking is placed in the unassigned folder, you can update the priority color for your reference (customers and providers will not be able to see the priority). To do so, click the triangle icon, and then a pop-up window will show you the options for priority.

There are three levels of priority:
Ģ Low (Green)
Ģ Medium (Orange)
Ģ High (Red)

By default, all new bookings placed in the unassigned folder will be the medium priority.

There are various action buttons listed to the right of each booking in the unassigned folder when in the list view.

984 Details - Hover over this icon to view basic details about the booking
985 Assign - Click this icon to assign a provider to the service.
986 Send Invitation- Click this icon to send an "invitation" notification to your providers letting them know this job is still available.
Please be sure your notification templates are enabled for "New booking in unassigned folder". You can do this by going to:Settings > Notifications > Email or SMS > Providers > Unassigned Booking Once you have sent out a reminder, there will be another action button to send a reminder that the job is still available.
987 Edit - Click this icon to open the booking form to make changes or updates to the booking form.
988 Cancel - Click this icon to cancel the booking. A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to cancel the booking. This pop-up also contains an additional option to exclude customer notifications and exclude the cancelation fee (if you have one set up).

The unassigned folder can also double as a Waitlist on the customer front-end. This feature allows customers to request a date and time for their booking when no other providers are available.

Whenever a customer chooses to place their booking on the waitlist, an orange "WL" icon will be added just before the priority level icon.

The unassigned folder/waiting feature can be used in many circumstances.
Ģ A customer may want to reschedule for a different time, but you donÆt currently have the time they are looking for.
Ģ Your provider has called off sick last minute and you want to find a worker to cover that job as soon as possible.
Ģ You are fully booked up but would still like to waitlist a job in case a cancelation comes in

Whatever the case may be, these bookings will be displayed inside this special folder so you and your providers can pay closer attention to them.

Provider Unassigned Folder Settings
Your unassigned folder comes configured and ready to go when you create your BookingKoala account, so it is ready to use as soon as you begin taking appointments. However, there are several settings under the Store Options section that further control how your unassigned folder will work.

If you would like providers to be able to see and pick up jobs from the unsigned folder, go to: Settings > General > Store Options > Scheduling > Scheduling

Expand this section and scroll down to the question "Would you like to allow your providers to see bookings in the unassigned folder and accept them?".
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow providers to view and pick up bookings that fit their availability and settings.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the unassigned folder section from the providers' dashboards.

If you answered "Yes" to the previous question, select an answer for the following question, "Would you like to allow your providers to see bookings in the unassigned folder even if not applicable?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to override all of your provider's settings (such as which industries they work in, locations, pricing parameters, etc) and show them all bookings in the unassigned folder.
? For example, if a provider has disabled the extra "Cats" from their profile settings, they will still be able to see bookings that have the "Cat" extra added when placed in the unassigned folder.
Ģ Select "No" so only jobs that are permitted within the provider's profile settings will display when placed in the unassigned folder.
? For example, if a provider is only available in the "Dallas" service area and a job in "San Antonio" is added to the waitlist, they will NOT be able to see this job.

You can also decide if you would like your provider to receive a notification when a new job has been placed in the unassigned folder. Below, "Would you like all your providers to be notified when a new booking comes into the unassigned folder?" select:
Ģ Yes - Providers will be notified when new bookings are added to the waitlist/unassigned folder.
? Please be sure your notification templates are enabled for "New booking in unassigned folder". You can do this by going to: Settings > Notifications > Email or SMS > Providers > Unassigned Booking
Ģ No - Provider will not be notified when bookings are added to this section. Instead, they must manually check this section of their dashboard to view any new bookings that have been added.

Permission for Providers to View the Unassigned Folder
You may want to customize which of your providers can see and pick up jobs from the unassigned folder. For example, you may not want new or still-in-training workers to pick up jobs until you have more confidence in their skills. To do so, please go to: Providers > Providers > [Provider/Team Name] >Profile > Settings

Beneath the question, ōShow unassigned jobs to the provider?ö:
Ģ Select "Yes: to allow this provider/team to view and grab jobs from the unassigned folder section in their dashboard.
Ģ Select "No" to hide this section from their dashboard entirely.

Enable/Disable the Waitlist for Customers
As previously mentioned, you can allow your customers to use the unassigned folder as a waitlist. This allows customers to submit a request for service for days and times that are already booked up. Customers can also reschedule existing bookings into the unassigned folder if they change their preference for a date and time and you do not have the availability for it just yet.

As soon as the job is picked up from the unassigned folder (or is assigned to a provider by admin/staff), the customer can receive an automatic notification confirming the appointment has been covered. If the booking is unable to be assigned to a provider, you can simply cancel out the booking and the customer will receive an automatic notification that you were unable to locate a provider for their appointment.

To enable or disable the customer waitlist feature, go to: Settings > General > Store Options > Scheduling > Booking Options

The first question in this section is ōDo you want to activate the waiting list option under the booking form?ö
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable the waitlist option.
Ģ Select "No" to disable the waitlist option. Customers will need to select an open spot to schedule services with your business.

How do my providers pick up jobs from the unassigned folder?
If you enable your providers to see and pick up jobs for the unassigned folder, they will have a tab added to their menu in both their app and the desktop version.

To look at job details, they can click the blue "View Detail" button. If they would like to assign the job to their schedule, they can click the green "Grab Job" button.

There will always be a pop-up displayed confirming that they want to grab this booking. To proceed with adding it to their schedule, they must click "Yes".

Once a booking has been grabbed by a provider, it cannot get "dropped" unless an admin or staff member places the booking back into the unassigned folder.



Send a quote
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/send-a-quote

Send a quote
Learn how to send a quote to your customers.

Last updated on 30 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:

Ģ Send a quote to a customer
Ģ Set an expiration date for a quote
Ģ Enable a quote reminder
Ģ Offer a custom discount on a quote
Ģ Edit the quote email content
Ģ Share a quote link with a customer
Ģ View and modify saved quotes

How to Send a Quote
If your customer is not ready to book yet but you'd like to provide them with a quote for your services, you can easily send them a quote through your booking form.

To begin, click the blue " Add Booking " button at the top of the left-side menu to begin filling out a new booking form.

To send a quote to a customer, you must include at minimum a First Name and Email Address for your customer. All other fields can be completed or left empty depending on which information you'd like to include in the quote.

Please note that if you leave a field empty , you likely want your customers to fill in the missing information. To allow this, you must ensure that customers have been enabled to edit quotes. If disabled, customers will not be able to make any changes to the quote beyond their personal contact information, home address, and customer notes. Click here to learn how to enable (or disable) customers' ability to edit their quotes.

Once you have finished filling out the form, you will click the orange " Save As Quote " button

Email a Quote

A " Send Quote " pop-up will appear. By default, you will be on the " Send An Email " tab.

989 To - The customer's email address will be located in the first box. You can edit the email if you'd like to send the quote to a different address.
990 Expires on - You can set an expiration datefor the link in the quote. If the customer clicks the link after the expiration date, they will see a message letting them know the quote has either expired or been deleted, and that they should contact the admin to resend the quote.
Once they click "Ok", they will be directed to your "Book Now" page.
991 Send Reminder - Check the box next to " Send Reminder After [select] Days" to send an automated quote reminder email to the client.
Reminders can be sent up to31 days after the original quote was created.
992 Offer - Check the box next to " Offer" to add a custom promotion to the quote.
Enter thediscount amount into the first box and then select " % " for a percentage-based discount, or " $ " for a fixed-rate discount.

Once you have finished making your selections, click the blue " Save & Preview " button to view how to email will look to the client. Once you are on the Preview tab, you also have the option to Edit the email content as desired.

When you are ready, click the blue " Send " button at the bottom left of the pop-up. You will be redirected to the " Drafts/Quotes " section under " Bookings ".

The quote has been saved successfully according to the green system notification at the top of the screen. The most recently saved quote will appear at the top of the list.

Share a Quote Link

If you'd like to share a link to the quote instead of sending an email, click the " Share Link " tab at the top of the " Send Quote " pop-up.

993 Pencil Icon -Click the pencil icon to edit the domain extension that your customer will use to view their quote.
Once finished, click the green "Save " button to update the link.
994 Copy Link - Click the blue " Copy Link " button to copy the link and share it with your customer.
995 Offer - Check the box next to " Offer" to add a custom promotion to the quote.
Enter thediscount amount into the first box and then select " % " for a percentage-based discount, or " $ " for a fixed-rate discount.

View and Modify Saved Quotes
Once you have sent out a quote, it will be saved in the " Drafts/Quotes " section under " Bookings ".

Here, you can view all quotes and drafts saved into the system. You can use the filters at the top of the page to view quotes for specific industries and locations or search for a customer's information .

Below, you'll see the quotes and drafts organized into rows with the most recent quote being listed at the top of the page.

To see if a quote has been opened, clicked, or booked, look under the Status column located to the left.

At the far left of the column, you will see an " Options " button. These contain several different action buttons to modify the quote.

996 Create Booking - Click this option to open the booking form and pick up where you last left off.
997 Change Expiration - Click here to update the expiration date for the booking. A " Change Expiration Date " pop-up will appear with the option to select a new date. Click the blue " Save Changes " button if you make any changes to the original date.
998 Send Quote - Click "Sent Quote" to open the "Send Quote" pop-up again.
999 Share Quote Link - Click "Share Quote Link" to open the "Share Quote Link" popup and view/modify the share link for the quote.
1000 Send Email -  Click "Send Email" to also open the "Send Quote" pop-up.
1001 Edit - Click "Edit" to open the booking form and make changes to the quote.
1002 View History - This option allows you to look at the quote's logs to view any changes to its history.
1003 Delete -Select this option to delete the quote. A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to delete the quote.
Click the blue "Yes " button to proceed. Once a quote has been deleted, it cannot be retrieved from the system.



Booking time logs
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/booking-time-logs

Booking time logs
Learn everything about booking time logs, including how they are generated, where to check job statuses, how to update logs, and export logs as a CSV file.

Last updated on 17 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How time logs are created
Ģ Where to view job statuses
Ģ How to adjust time logs
Ģ How to approve time logs
Ģ How to export time logs

Booking Time Logs
If you have enabled the clock-in/out feature, your providers will be able to clock in and clock out from the BookingKoala for Providers app. This allows you to track the total length of each service if you charge your customers based on time.

When a provider clicks "On the Way" from the booking details page of the app, the system will generate a time log for the booking and start tracking their travel time (and distance if GPS tracking is enabled). Once they click "Clock In", the system will start tracking the job length.

Once tracking has begun, you can view the corresponding booking time log by going to: Bookings > Booking Time Logs

At the top of this section, you can use the date box, status menu, or search bar to look up a specific time log for a customer or provider.

Below, you will see all of the logs that have been generated so far, with the most recent located at the top of the list.

If you would like to lock the Customer/Location column in place, click the blue lock icon to the left of "Customer/Location". This will allow you to scroll through the booking time log while referencing the customer's information.

Viewing Job Statuses
If a log is highlighted in red and has a red "Needs Attention" tag, this means that the log was added automatically by the system upon job completion because one or more providers did not clock in.

Use the scroll bar to scroll to the right to view the Provider Status.

The possible job statuses are:
Ģ On the Way - The provider has clicked the "On the Way" button but has not yet arrived at the job site.
Ģ At Location - The provider is at the job site but has not clicked "Clock In" just yet.
Ģ Clocked In - The provider has clicked the "Clock In" button or has been automatically clocked in and is actively working on the job.
Ģ Lunch Break - The provider has clicked "Lunch Break" and is on a break.
Ģ Completed - The provider has clicked the "Clock Out" button or has been automatically clocked out and has finished working on the job.

To view where a provider is located if they have not clocked out yet, scroll to the right until you see the "Provider Status" column and then click "Edit".

A "Time Log" pop-up will appear with all of the log details that have been generated so far. If GPS tracking has been enabled, you will also be able to click and hold the blue arrows icon to view the map and see the GPS points that have been generated by the provider.

You can also view time log information inside the booking form for that job. Click on the edit/pencil icon to open the booking. Then, scroll down and click on the grey "Booking Time Log" button at the bottom of the right-side menu.

Once your provider has clocked out, you will be able to see the completed log under the ōBooking Time Logsö section or by opening the booking page and clicking on "Booking Time Logs". The completed log includes the following data:
Ģ Service Date - Day, date, and time the service was scheduled to begin.
Ģ Customer - Displays the customer's name.
Ģ Estimated Job Length - The job length as estimated by you or the booking form when the job was first scheduled.
Ģ Assigned To - The provider(s)/team assigned to this job.
Ģ Provider Status - Such as ōClocked Inö, ōAt locationö, or ōCompletedö.
Ģ On The Way - The time the provider clicked "On the Way".
Ģ Clocked In - The time the provider clicked "Clock In".
Ģ Clocked Out - The time the provider clicked "Clock Out".
Ģ Travel Distance - The total distance traveled between the provider clicking "On the Way" and "Clock In" (only available if GPS tracking has been enabled).
Ģ Travel Time - The total time between the provider clicking "On the Way" and "Clock In".
Ģ Time Reported - The total length of time between "Clock In" and "Clock Out".
Ģ Total Time - The total length of travel time plus the job length.

If you have allowed your provider to override/update their time logs, you will also see data for:
Ģ Provider overridden travel distance - The total travel distance as submitted by the provider.
Ģ Provider overridden travel time - The total travel time as submitted by the provider.
Ģ Provider overridden time reported - The total length of the job between "Clock In" and "Clock Out" as submitted by the provider.

Any provider adjustments to job time or distance travel will not override the GPS measurements that the system recorded. As the admin, you have total control over these aspects and can override them at any time.

Adjust Booking Time Logs
Admin can make adjustments to the booking time logs at any time if needed. To do so, please go to: Bookings > Booking Time Logs

Next, scroll to the right end of the log until you see the "Edit" button just below the "Provider Status" column.

The admin can edit the following points:
Ģ Clock in time
Ģ Clock out time
Ģ Travel distance
Ģ Travel time
Ģ Provider override travel distance
Ģ Provider override travel time
Ģ Provider override time reported

Once finished making any changes, be sure to click the blue "Update" button to update the time log.

If your provider has forgotten to clock in, you can easily generate a new time log for their booking by clicking the blue "Add Booking Time Log" button at the top right corner of the page.

A pop-up will appear, allowing you to search based on the customer or provider name. Type their name into the box and then click on their profile. Then, click on the drop-down menu on the right side of the page to select the booking ID that you want to create a log for.

The information for the selected booking ID will be displayed in the pop-up below. Enter the times for "On the Way", "Clock In", and "Clock Out", then click the blue "Add" button at the bottom of the page. A new log will be generated for the booking.

Admin can also clock in for a booking on behalf of the provider from the "Today's Bookings" section. To do so, go to: Bookings > Today's Bookings

Once you locate the booking you'd like to clock in, click the clock icon under the "Actions" column.

Once you click this, a "Clock In" popup will appear. The address where you want to clock the provider will be listed in the box below. If you want to exclude a notification from being sent regarding the clock-in, check the box next to "Exclude notification from being sent". Then click the blue "Clock In" button to proceed.

You can now visit the Booking Time Logs section to view or edit the log as needed.

Approve Booking Time Logs
If your business's bookings are priced according to time, you will need to approve your booking time logs before charging your customers. This ensures that you are charged exactly what has been reported by the provider.

If you would like to update the booking length based on adjustments in the booking time logs, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > Provider

Click the plus sign icon to expand the "GPS & Time Logs" section.

Scroll down to the question, "Would you like time adjustments in the time logs to be updated on the booking as well?" and select "Yes".

Then click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the page to update your settings.

Once you've made this update, the booking time logs will update the booking length once you approve them.

To approve the booking time logs, go to: Bookings > Booking Time Logs

Scroll to the right of the row until you see a grey "Pending" button below the "Status" column. You will see this drop-down menu with options for approving the time log once the job has been completed.

There are five options to pick from for the time log status:
Ģ Rejected - The booking time log will be rejected and the system will not update the booking's total length.
Ģ Pending - The booking time log has not been approved or rejected yet.
Ģ Approved - Time reported with lunch break - The booking time log will be approved including the lunch break, updating the booking's total length.
Ģ Approved - Time reported without lunch break - The booking time log will be approved not including the lunch break towards the booking's total length.
Ģ Approved - Time reported & travel time - The booking time log will be approved including the travel time as part of the booking's total length.

Once you have approved or rejected your provider time logs, you can head to the pending charged section to begin processing the customers' charges.

Export the Booking Time Logs
You can download a .CSV file of your booking time logs at any time by going to: Bookings > Booking Time Logs

Click on the green "Export" button at the top right corner of the page.

You will be redirected to the "Export Booking Time Logs" page. You can use the filters at the top of the page to export times logs by:
Ģ Date range
Ģ Industry
Ģ Provider status
? All
? All excluding deleted
? Active
? Inactive
? Deleted
Ģ Status
? All
? Approved
? Rejected
? Pending
Ģ Clocked-in status
? All
? Clocked in
? Not clocked in

Under "Export For", you can select "All Providers" or "Specific Provider(s)".

Next, select which field(s) you would like to export. Check the topmost box next to "Select All" to select all of the options below, or check the boxes next to the fields you would like to have included.

If you would the export to sort the logs per provider, check the box next to "Per Provider".

When this box is checked, your export file will sort the providers into sections so you can view all of their time logs grouped together.

If the box is left unchecked, the file will be sorted by booking ID and date.

Once you are ready to export your file, click the blue "Export" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know the data has begun downloading successfully.



How do cancellation fees work?
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-do-cancelation-fees-work

How do cancellation fees work?
Learn more about cancellation fees and how to set them up in BookingKoala.

Last updated on 24 Apr, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to enable cancellation fees for customers and providers
Ģ How cancellation fees are charged to the customer
Ģ How the cancellation fees are paid to the provider.
Ģ What happens to the customer's cancellation fee if the booking is resumed
Ģ What happens to the provider cancellation fee after the booking is resumed

Enabling Cancellation Fees for Customers and Providers
In Bookingkoala, you have full control over when the system should charge cancellation fees to the customer. You can access this setting by going to:

Settings > General > Store Options > General tab > Cancellation section

To charge one or more types of cancelation fees, select "Yes" to the first question, "Do you charge a cancellation fee?"

Next, decide if you would like to charge a single type of fee or multiple fees depending on the circumstance.

Single Cancellation Fee
Ģ If you select "single", enter the cancelation amount and type (dollar amount or percentage of the booking total) into the box below.
? If you want the provider to receive a payment from the cancelation fee, click the red Disabled button to switch it to Enabled, then enter the amount or percentage of the fee you would like them to get paid.
? If you would like all cancellation fees to follow these guidelines, check the box next to "Override the service category settings for cancellation fee and apply based on these settings." This means the above fee will be used regardless of whatever cancelation fee settings you have applied to your service categories under Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > [Form #] > Service Categories.
? Beneath the question "When will your customers be charged a cancellation fee?", decide if you would like the fee to be charged:
Ģ If they cancel after a specific time of day, such as 2 PM, the day before the job.
Ģ If they cancel a specific number of hours, such as 3 hours, before the job.
? Check the box next to "Exclude same-day bookings" if you would not like the system to charge a cancellation fee if a same-day booking is canceled in the system.

Multiple Cancellation Fees
Ģ If you would like to have multiple cancelation fees, select "Multiple" and then use the blue "Add Fee" button to add as many fees as you'd like.
? A pop-up window will open where you can add each fee. Click the blue Next button to add each fee to the list
? Once each fee has been added, it can be edited or deleted by using the "Options" button.
? If you would like all cancellation fees to follow these guidelines, check the box next to "Override the service category settings for cancellation fee and apply based on these settings." This means the above fee will be used regardless of whatever cancelation fee settings you have applied to your service categories under Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > [Form #] > Service Categories.
? Check the box next to "Exclude same-day bookings" if you would not like the system to charge a cancellation fee if a same-day booking is canceled in the system.

Cancellation Reasons Beneath the cancelation fees, you can set up optional reasons for why a customer has canceled their booking. This information is tracked in the Reports section under the Cancellation Reports section.

Ģ To set up cancelation reasons, select "Yes" for the question "Would you like to set up reasons for why the booking is being canceled?"
? Click the blue Manage Reasons button to open the reason manager.
? There are several default reasons in the resulting pop-up that can be edited by selecting "Options" then "Edit" or deleted by selecting "Options" then "Delete".
? You can add your custom cancelation reason by clicking the blue "Add New" button at the bottom of the pop-up.
Ģ Enter a reason into the topmost field.
Ģ Select if this reason should show for one-time and/or recurring customers.
Ģ Select if the reason should show when customers are canceling all recurring appointments and/or canceling a single appointment.
Ģ Decide if you would like to exclude the cancelation fee and/or cancel after the first appointment fee.
? To change the order of appearance of the cancellation reasons, drag and drop the reasons into a new order and then click the orange Update Priority button.
? Remember to click the green Save button to save any changes you've made to your cancellation reasons.
Ģ For the question, "Would you like it to be optional to give a reason for the cancellation?",
? Select "No" to make the customer have to select one or more cancellation reasons when canceling their booking(s).
? Select "Yes" to make leaving a cancellation reason optional.
Ģ For the question, "Would you like to have a comment box in the cancellation section?",
? Select "No" if you would not like to include a comment box for the customer to fill out when they are canceling their booking(s).
? Select "Yes" if you would like to include a comment box in the customer cancelation pop-up.
Ģ If you selected "Yes" to this question, check the boxes next the "One Time" and/or "Recurring" to decide which type of cancellations will have a comment box.
Ģ There will also be the question, "Would you like it to be optional to leave a comment with the cancellation?"
? Select "Yes" to make leaving a comment optional for One-time and/or Recurring cancelations.
? Select "No" to make leaving a comment mandatory for one-time and recurring cancelations.

Setting Up Cancellation Fees by Industry and Service Category Below the options for setting up cancellation reasons and comments, you can select which industries and service categories you would like to use your cancelation reasons.

Check the box(es) next to each category that should use the pop-up, or select "All" to use the pop-up for all categories within an industry.

Any service categories that are not checked here will use the cancelation settings customized for that specific category by going to Settings > Industries > [Industry Name] > Form [#] > Service Categories.

Cancelation Pop-up for Admin-Only or Both Customers and Admin The final setting in the Cancellation section controls whether the cancelation pop-up will be displayed for just the admin/staff, or for the customers as well.

Ģ For the question "Will the reasons in the pop-up be displayed for the admin only or for customers as well?"
? Select "Only admin/staff" if only admin and staff members should see the cancellation pop-up reasons when canceling bookings.
? Select "Both" if both customers and admin/staff should see the reasons in the cancellation pop-up.

Save Save your changes by clicking the "Save" button.

Cancellation Fees to the Customer
Cancellations made within the cancellation fee settings are subject to a cancellation fee.

It is possible to skip charging the cancellation fee to the customer when canceling a specific booking by selecting "Don't charge cancellation fee." and clicking "Cancel This Appointment".

By selecting the relevant option after clicking the "Cancel" button, you can also select a different cancellation fee for the booking.

How Cancellation Fees Are Paid to the Provider
If you have enabled to pay the cancellation fee to the provider with 50% of the total cancellation fee charged to the customer, then this percentage amount will be added to the provider's payment.

For example, if the cancellation fee charged to the customer is $150.00, $75.00 will be added to the provider's payment during the payout.

If you do not want to pay the cancellation fee to the provider for a specific booking, you can click ōDon't pay the Provider out of the cancellation fee.ö and then click ōCancel the appointmentö.

Choosing different amounts of cancellation fees to pay to the Provider While canceling the booking, you can choose to pay a different cancellation fee to the provider by choosing the relevant option after clicking "Cancel".

What happens to the cancellation fee if the booking is resumed? If you resume a canceled booking, the cancellation charges will not be automatically refunded. Alternatively, you must refund the cancellation charge manually after resuming the booking. To refund the cancellation fee, go to the canceled booking under:

Bookings > Cancellations

Click on the ōEditö button to edit the booking.

Once you have done so, click the "Refund charge" button on the booking form and click "Yes".

If you don't want your customers to receive notifications, check the "Exclude notification from being sent" box.

What happens to the cancellation fee already paid to the provider? As soon as you click on the "Resume Booking" button after the cancellation fee has been paid to the provider, you will receive a pop-up message stating "You are resuming a booking on which a cancellation fee has been paid." What should be done with the cancellation payment?

The following two options are relevant:
Ģ Don't do anything, the provider will keep the payment. (Payment remains with the provider with this option.)
Ģ Revert the payment and do not pay the provider. (This option will work only if payment has not been made to the provider in the system yet.)

If the payment has not been made in the system, the cancellation fee will be reverted after resuming the booking.

If the cancellation fee has been made in the system, it will appear under the provider payment section of the admin dashboard. To check the provider cancellation fee, please go to:

Providers > Payments

You can find the cancellation fee for the provider under the "Job Listing" option in the Payments section.

Here you can find the cancellation fees for each provider.



Add a booking
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-booking

Add a booking
Learn how to add a customer's booking to the schedule.

Last updated on 24 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Create a new booking or recurring service for a customer
Ģ Select services and see the booking price
Ģ Override the booking time, service total, and/or price
Ģ Assign a provider or team to a booking
Ģ Save a booking to the waitlist/unassigned folder
Ģ Add the customer's details to the form
Ģ Select an existing or add a new payment method
Ģ Save a booking to the calendar
Ģ Save a booking as a draft or quote

How to Add a Booking
If you are ready to create a new booking for a customer, there are a few places where you can locate the "Add Booking" button.

1004 There is an "Add Booking" button at the top of the left-side menu when logged into the admin or staff dashboard. Click here to learn how admin and staff can log in to access their dashboards.
If your account has multiple industries, a drop-down menu will allow you to select which industry to create a booking for.
1005 There is also an "Add Booking" button located at the top of the customer's dashboard.

If there is a combination of multiple forms, the pre-qualifying question(s) will be located at the top of the form.

As the form is filled out, the Booking Summary and Payment Summary will be updated to show the selected services and pricing details.

The customer details section will be close to the top of the admin-facing form to quickly look up existing customers as needed using the "Existing Customer" option. Otherwise, the default will be set to "New Customer" where you can enter the customer's first name, last name, and email address when ready.

Override the Booking Time, Service Total, and Price
Scroll down until you see the "Booking Adjustments" section. This is normally located just above the "Choose Service Provider"/"Assigned To" section where you select the provider, date, and time.

To override the automated pricing for this job BEFORE taxes, coupons, or discounts, check the box next to "Do you want to adjust service total?" Then, enter the new price into the field below.

In the Payment Summary box on the upper right side or bottom of the booking form, you will see the service total has been adjusted.

To override the automated pricing for this job BEFORE taxes but AFTER coupons or discounts, check the box next to "Do you want to adjust price?" Then, enter the new price into the field below.

On the Payment Summary box on the upper right side or bottom of the booking form, you will see a new line for the adjusted total.

Below the price adjustment option, there is another option for ōDo you want to adjust time?ö Check this box to override the booking's estimated length of time.

The Booking Summary on the top right corner of the page will automatically reflect whatever time is entered into the hours and minutes boxes.

Assign a Provider or Team to a Booking
Scroll down to the "Choose Service Provider" section to assign a provider or team to a booking.

From Schedule Bookings

The first option is to check the schedule based on your availability as set up under Settings > General > Store Options > Scheduling tab and Settings > Booking Spots > Maximum Settings. This option is called "From Schedule". When selected, click on the date field to select an available date and time from your booking spots.

Whether or not an available provider or team is selected depends upon your answer to the scheduling setting, "Would you like to select the provider manually or automatically?".

Ģ If "Automatically" is selected, the system selects a provider based on the priority order as dictated under Providers > Providers > Set Priority button.
Ģ If "Manually" is selected, you will have an "Assign Provider" button to select a team or provider for the booking.

If you've selected an individual provider, you may see an option to "Pair Provider". Provider pairing allows individual providers to be placed into temporary teams per booking. This differs from regular teams, who always perform all jobs with the same team members every time.

Click the "Pair Provider" button to see a list of available, not available, and incompatible providers. Check the box(es) next to the provider(s) you want to pair for this booking and then click on the green "Pair" button at the top of the pop-up.

If you want to remove a paired provider, there will be a red "Remove Provider" button beneath their name.

Specific Provider

If you've enabled the option to choose a specific provider under your Store Option Scheduling settings, you will have a checkbox next to the "Specific Provider/Team" option. This allows you to type in the name of a specific provider or team and view their schedule specifically.

Waiting List

Another option with a checkbox next to it is the "Waiting List" option. This allows you to schedule bookings without assigning a provider and save them to the unassigned folder.

Once a booking is placed in the unassigned folder, you can update the priority color for your reference (customers and providers will not be able to see the priority). There are three levels of priority:

Ģ Low (Green)
Ģ Medium (Orange)
Ģ High (Red)

By default, all new bookings placed in the unassigned folder will be the medium priority unless you set it differently when scheduling the booking.

Manual Bookings
As opposed to "From Schedule" bookings, "Manual" bookings allow the admin and staff to manually set a date and start time/arrival range for the booking outside of your regular booking spots.

First, click on the "Select Date" field to select a date, then click on the "Select Arrival Time" field to set the start time.

If you would like to create an arrival range, use the "Arrival Window" fields to enter the length of the range in hours and minutes.

From here, click "Assign Provider" or "Pair Provider" to look for available providers and teams.

Add the Customer's Details
Once a date and time have been selected, you can fill out the customer's address.

If you are booking an existing customer, select "Use Existing" to select an address from their profile.

Below this section, you may have enabled the "Key Information & Job Notes" or "Special Notes Or Instructions" sections to collect additional details about the booking.

These sections can be shown or hidden from the form by going to Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme > Page menu > Book Now page. Click on the "Show/Hide" buttons to show or hide the sections.

Select a Payment Method
At the bottom of the booking page is the Payment Information section. This is where payment for the booking is designated. If you are booking an existing customer, you may have the option to use an "Existing credit card". Otherwise, select "New credit card" or "Cash/check".

You can change the names of the payment options by accessing the website and theme builder. Go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

Click on the top center Page menu and go to the "Book Now" page. Scroll down the booking form until you reach the Payment Information section. Click on the text of the payment methods to reveal the Edit button. Once you click Edit, you can update the name of the method.

Save a Booking to the Calendar
To save a booking to the calendar, you must, at minimum:

Ģ Enter a customer name
Ģ Enter an email address
Ģ Make form selection(s)
Ģ Select a date and time
Ģ Add a payment method (if there isn't one already)
Ģ Click the "Save Booking" button from the right side menu options

Once the booking is saved, you can find it by going to:

Bookings > Upcoming Bookings

Like the other booking sections, the Upcoming Booking section can be viewed in List View, Calendar View, or Map View.

Bookings can also be filtered by industry, location, and frequency, and can be searched by name, email address, phone number, booking ID, or address.

Save a Booking as a Draft or Quote
To save a booking as a draft or a quote, you must collect the customer's name and email address. Then, you would click "Save as Draft" if you do not intend to send it to the customer, or "Save As Quote" if you would like to send it to the customer.

If a booking is saved as a quote, you will be redirected to a pop-up where you can customize the email address the quote is sent to, when it expires, if you'd like to set up a quote reminder email to be sent after several days, or if you would like to set up an offer.

Click the "Save & Preview" button to view the quote as the customer will see it when they open the email. From here, you can Edit the email and Send it out.

It is also possible to get a customizable share link by clicking the "Share Link" tab and using the "Copy Link" button. Like with the email option, you can apply a special offer to the share link by checking the box next to "Offer", entering an amount or percentage, and then clicking "Apply".

Once a booking is saved as a draft or a quote, it can be accessed anytime by going to:

Bookings > Draft/Quote

The Draft/Quote Dashboard contains filters at the top of the page so you can easily search drafts and quotes by industry, location, name, email, phone, draft ID, or address.

There are also options to:

Ģ Create a booking from the draft/quote
Ģ Send out the draft/quote via email
Ģ Share the quote link
Ģ Send the customer a custom email
Ģ Edit the draft/quote
Ģ View the history of changes to and creation date of the draft/quote
Ģ Delete the draft/quote



Using the add payment feature
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/using-the-add-payment-feature

Using the add payment feature
Learn where to locate the add payment feature to invite your customers to add their form of payment on file.

Last updated on 18 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to use the add payment feature

How to Use the Add Payment Feature
The Add Payment feature has been released to make it easier for your customers to add a form of payment on file for their bookings.

Ģ Some customers prefer not to give their card information over the phone.
Ģ Other customers may be hearing-impaired and may find it easier to complete.
Ģ Saves time on the phone for both parties.

To access this feature, please locate a booking without a card on file in the dashboard.

If you are in list view, look for the Send "Add Card" Link icon beneath the Actions column.

If you are in calendar view, click on the booking and look for the Send "Add Card" Link button listed beneath the booking summary.

Once you click on the button/icon, a pop-up will appear with several options.

Ģ The topmost Text field allows you to send a message of up to 200 characters to include alongside the Add Card link.
Ģ The URL can be copied and manually sent to customers.
Ģ The Send email, Send SMS, or Send both options allow you to decide if you'd like to send the link via email, SMS, or both.

To send the link, click the blue "Send" button at the bottom right corner of the pop-up. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the link has been sent successfully.

Add Card Link Notification Templates
If you receive an error message when trying to send an Add Card link to a customer, you may need to enable the global email and SMS templates for the "Add Card" link. To do so, please go to:

Settings > Notifications > Email > Customer > Account

Scroll down to the bottom of the Account section until you see the "Add Card" template and click the toggle button to switch it to Enabled.

Repeat the process for the "Add Card" template located under:

Settings > Notifications > SMS > Customer > Account

Now you will be able to send both email and SMS links to your clients.



Private booking notes
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/private-booking-notes

Private booking notes
Learn about the admin/staff booking form notes and how to use them appropriately.

Last updated on 23 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to navigate the admin/staff booking form note feature

Booking Notes
Booking notes are special sections of the booking form where you can leave notes for specific parties regarding sensitive details about the job.

There are four different types of private booking notes.

1006 Private Booking Note - A private booking note can only be seen here on the admin/staff booking page and cannot be seen by the customer or the provider(s).
? For example, if you and your staff want to leave a note regarding a disagreement the provider had with the customer, this would be the correct section to leave that note. Only the admin and staff would be able to see the note, and they would only be able to see it here on the booking details page for this specific job.
1007 Private Customer Note - A private customer note can be seen here as well as the notes section on the customer's profile and can only be seen by admin and staff.
? For example, let's say your customer has a preferred service provider. You can note that preference here in the private customer note section. Only you and the staff will be able to see this note, and it will be visible in this note section on all bookings as well as the notes section in the customer's profile.
1008 Note For Service Provider - A note for the service provider is left by the admin or staff and can be seen by the service provider, admin, and staff but not the customer.
? For example, let's say you want to remind the provider to be careful not to let the cat out of the house like last time without reminding the customer that it happened. You can leave this information in a note for the service provider.
1009 Note From Service Provider - A note from the service provider is left by the service provider for the admin or staff and cannot be seen by the customer.
? For example, let's say the provider has notes about the job that they'd rather the customer not see, like remarks on the cleanliness of an apartment. The provider can add these notes to this section, which will be visible to the admin and staff but not the customer.



13. Leads
Articles in this collection (28):

1010 How to build a new leads funnel
1011 How to add a lead
1012 How to filter and export leads
1013 Lead reports
1014 How to build a leads form
1015 Lead tags
1016 Lead settings
1017 Lead notifications
1018 Lead logs
1019 Leads module overview
1020 How to build an action form
1021 How to import leads
1022 How to manage other forms and popups
1023 Lead profiles
1024 How to combine leads
1025 How to send messages and forms to leads
1026 How to edit or delete a lead
1027 How to use Smart Documents
1028 How to sync leads
1029 Set up your leads notifications
1030 What are hot leads?
1031 How to add leads from listing pages
1032 Best ways to use leads
1033 How to add a leads form to your website
1034 Setting up Google ad reports in the leads module
1035 Setting up Facebook Lead Tracking and Ad Reports in the Leads Module
1036 What are abandoned form leads?
1037 Setting up Zapier in the leads module



How to build a new leads funnel
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-build-a-new-leads-funnel

How to build a new leads funnel
What is a lead funnel?
A lead funnel is the series of steps it takes to convert a lead into a paying customer. A lead is any person with awareness of your business with the potential to purchase goods or services from you. The steps you take to nurture your leads will be reflected in the steps of your funnel.

Examples:
Ģ Automotive detailing company: Capture leads from a Spring promotion form, add them to a Spring Promotion funnel, and detail steps to contact the customer (provide quote, tell about savings, follow up).
Ģ Cleaning company: Import one-time customers into a funnel, create campaigns to gauge interest in recurring services, and target them with a special deal.

Funnels are a helpful way to keep these processes organized and efficient.

Add a New Leads Funnel
Navigation Path
Go to Leads Module > "Funnels" tab (along the top) > "Add" button (right side) > "Add new funnel".

Step-by-Step Instructions & Settings
1038 Name the funnel: Create a new name for the funnel.
1039 Assess columns: The three default columns that come with every funnel are Name, Details, and Won/Lost.
1040 Add a new column (Optional):
? Click on the "Add New Column" button in the top right corner.
? A pop-up window will open to enter column details:
Ģ Column name: Enter a title for the new column.
Ģ Tooltip text: Add a description of the column's purpose to be displayed as a tooltip.
Ģ Enable email automation?: Select "Yes" and choose an audience to add the lead to trigger an automated email campaign.
Ģ Select Custom field type: Select whether you want to add a single or group of custom fields to your column.
Ģ Select custom fields to add to this column: Select one or more custom fields to track progress or data related to this step of the funnel.
? Click the blue "Save" button to add the column to the funnel.

Funnel Settings
Below the columns, there are several Settings that pertain to the funnel:

1041 "How should the system update lead statuses that haven't been updated in a specific number of days?"
? Select the number of days (or immediate) from the first field.
? Select one of the following options for each query:
Ģ Remove from funnel
Ģ Do nothing
Ģ Mark them won
Ģ Mark them lost
Ģ Mark them other
1042 Specify booking actions based on frequency
? If "Yes": You will have two tabs for your settings: one for one-time and one for recurring.
? If "No": You will have a single set of settings for booking actions regardless of frequency.
1043 "What action should be taken if the lead books a service?"
? Select whether the lead should be marked as "Won", "Remove" it from the funnel, or if the funnel should "Do nothing".
? If you select "Won", there are additional settings:
Ģ "Do you want to override the revenue amount with the booking amount?"
? Select "Yes" to override the manually entered revenue amount with the booking total.
? Select "No" to use the manually entered revenue amount instead.
Ģ If "Yes" to the previous question: "Do you want to consider booking reschedule/cancellation amount in revenue?"
? Select "Yes" to consider the booking rescheduling or cancellation amount in the revenue.
? Select "No" if you do not want to consider these in the revenue.
Ģ "What action should be taken if someone cancels a booking?"
? Select "Lost" if you would like the lead marked as "lost" if they cancel a booking.
? Select "Move to funnel" if you would like the lead to be moved to a specific funnel if they cancel a booking.
1044 "Should leads inside this funnel be added to a campaign list?"
? Allows you to add leads from this funnel to one or more audience lists for your campaigns.
? Select "Yes" to pick which audiences will have the leads added.
? Select "No" if you do not want to add this funnel's leads to any audience lists.
1045 "Do you want to override the source of work and add your own for this funnel?"
? Pertains to the source from which the leads in this funnel originate.
? Select "Yes" to override the leads' source of work with a specific source whenever they are added to this funnel. All leads added to the funnel will be updated to whatever source of work you have selected from the field below.
? Select "No" if you would not like to override the source of work for leads added to this funnel. Leads will come in with whatever source of work was selected when the lead was added to the system.

Final Step: Once finished making selections, click the blue "Update" button at the bottom right side of the page to update your funnel. A green system notification will confirm your funnel has been updated successfully.

Duplicate an Existing Funnel
Navigation Path
Go to Leads Module > "Funnels" section > Select the funnel you would like to duplicate from the Funnels menu along the top left side > Click the "Add" button > Select "Duplicate Funnel".

Step-by-Step Instructions
1046 A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are certain you would like to duplicate this funnel.
1047 Enter the name of the new funnel into the field below.
1048 Click the blue "Duplicate" button.
1049 A green system notification will confirm that the new funnel has been duplicated successfully.
1050 The new funnel can be accessed from the Funnels drop-down menu.



How to add a lead
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-add-a-lead

How to add a lead
Learn how to add a new lead to your funnel(s).

Last updated on 26 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to add a new lead to the Leads Module

If you are looking to import or sync multiple leads into the system at once, click here.

Add a New Lead
There are a few different places you can add a new lead inside the Leads Module. First, go to the Leads tab along the top of the page and then click the Add New Lead button on the right side of the screen.

It is also possible to add a new lead from the Funnels tab by clicking on the Add button and selecting Add New Lead.

This will prompt the system to open an Add New Lead pop-up where you can enter the first name, last name, email address, and phone number of the lead.

In addition, you can also add tags to the lead using the Add Tag field.

If you would like to add the lead to one or more funnels, check the box next to " Would you like to add the lead to the funnels? " and then select which funnels to add the lead to.

At the bottom of the pop-up, there is a Notes section where you can add any pertinent notes about the lead to the file.

To finish adding the lead, click the blue Add button at the bottom right corner of the pop-up.

A green system notification will confirm that the lead has been saved successfully, and you will now see the lead tagged with a " New " tag under the Leads section.



How to filter and export leads
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-filter-and-export-leads

How to filter and export leads
Learn how to filter leads in the leads dashboard and how to export leads from BookingKoala.

Last updated on 25 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to filter leads in the leads dashboard
Ģ How to export leads

Filtering Leads
Leads can be filtered using several different options on the leads dashboard. To begin, click on the Leads section at the top of the page.

There are four basic filters across the top of this page: lead type, form, source, and date.

Ģ Lead type allows you to view all leads or just new leads.
Ģ Forms allow you to view leads associated with a specific form.
Ģ Original source allows you to view the leads by the source they came from.
Ģ Date allows you to view leads according to the date in which they were submitted.
Ģ Document status refers to the status of documents that have been sent to the leads. You can select from the following options: All, Sent, Progress, Declined, Completed, and Canceled.

In addition to these five basic filters, it is also possible to create your own filters using the Advanced Filters option. To begin, click the Advanced Filters button and select the blue Add Filters button.

Next, select one of the following categories to filter by a lead property: work progress, lead info, custom fields, and action forms.

For example, to see all leads that have been marked as "won", one would select the work progress category, click on Won lost status, check the box next to "is any of", then select won, and click apply filter.

Exporting Leads
To export your leads, use whatever filters you'd like to apply along the top of the leads page, then click the white Export button.

A pop-up will appear, asking if you would like the file format to be in .CSV or .XLSX. Once you've selected the filter type, click the blue Export button and the system will automatically email the file once it has been completed.



Lead reports
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/lead-reports

Lead reports
Learn how to read the reports in your leads dashboard.

Last updated on 25 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Which reports are available in the lead reports section
Ģ How to filter reports

Lead Reports
Inside the Leads Module, you can view your reports from the dashboard by going to the Reports tab.

There are three tabs at the top of the Reports page:
1051 The General tab contains reports related to your leads in BookingKoala.
1052 The Facebook Ad tab contains reports on any Facebook ads you have connected to Bookingkoala via the Facebook leads integration
1053 The Google Ad tab contains reports on any Google ads you have connected to BookingKoala via the Google leads integration

General Reports

The general reports can be filtered by:
Ģ Lead owner
Ģ Date
Ģ Funnel(s)
Ģ Forms
Ģ Sources
Ģ UTM Parameters

Data you can check in each report includes:
Ģ Leads - The total number of leads added during a specified period of time
Ģ Won - The total number of leads that were successfully converted into customers.
Ģ Revenue (Won) - The total amount of revenue resulting from successfully converted customers.
Ģ Lost - The total number of leads that were not successfully converted into customers.
Ģ Revenue (Lost) - The total amount of potential revenue lost with these leads.
Ģ Others - The number of leads that were neither lost nor won.
Ģ Revenue (Potential) - The total amount of potential revenue related to the "Others" category.
Ģ Work progress leads - The number of leads added to the selected funnel(s) with their statuses like "won", "lost", "other", "abandoned", etc.
Ģ Top lead sources - The number of leads originating from various sources with "Won" cases only. This includes the difference between this and the last session as well as the conversion rate.
Ģ Device category - The number and type of devices from which leads are generated
Ģ Browser type - The number and type of browser used by the leads.
Ģ Operating system - The number and type of operating system leads are using
Ģ Screen resolution - The screen resolution associated with the leads.
Ģ UTM Parameters



How to build a leads form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-build-a-leads-form

How to build a leads form
Learn how to build lead forms to capture leads in the Leads Module.

Last updated on 25 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ How to build a new leads form
Ģ How to manage a lead form's settings
Ģ How to embed a lead form

Add a New Lead Form
A lead form is a form that collects information from potential customers for your business.

There are six different types of options for building a new form.

Ģ Embedded form - Build an integrated form for your website, seamlessly embedding it into your web pages.
Ģ Standalone page - Generate a shareable form on a dedicated webpage, accessible through a provided link.
Ģ Pop-up box - Integrate a centrally positioned form that pops up on your webpage for user convenience.
Ģ Dropdown banner - Implement a screen-top form that descends elegantly, offering a user-friendly interaction.
Ģ Slide in left box - Add a form sliding in from the left side, enhancing user engagement seamlessly.
Ģ Slide in right box - Introduce a visually appealing form sliding in gracefully from the right side of the screen.

To build a new leads form, go to the Forms section at the top of the page, click on the Forms tab on the right side of the page, and then click the blue Create New button.

Next, select which type of form you would like to build.

Once you've selected the form type, click the blue Next button at the bottom of the pop-up to provide a name for your form, then click Save .  You will be redirected to the form builder.

Form Properties
Along the right side column, you will see options for the page style, form style , and custom style .

Ģ The page style section contains options for the page's color schemes, background color, and/or background image.
Ģ The form style section contains options to change the color, size, and font used in the form's buttons, container, header, input, labels, paragraphs, sub-labels, and tool tips.
Ģ The custom style section contains a box where custom CSS can be entered to modify the appearance of the form.  After the CSS is pasted into the box, click the blue Save button to apply the changes.

Form Elements
Predefined Elements

All forms require 4 pieces of information: First Name , Last Name , Email , and Phone Number . This ensures that your leads are properly linked to their profile in the Leads Dashboard. These elements are part of the 8 predefined elements that can be added to your forms.  The others include:

Ģ Address - Capture an address.
Ģ Gender - capture the lead's gender identity
Ģ Profile Picture - capture a profile picture of the lead
Ģ Company Name - capture the lead's company name
Ģ Terms & Conditions - capture the lead's agreement to your terms and conditions of the form

In addition to the predefined elements, there are also basic and advanced elements that can be added to the form builder.

Basic Elements

There are a variety of different Basic Elements that can be added to your form from the left-side menu.

Ģ Header - Inserts a header and optional subheader
Ģ Label - Inserts a "label" style line of text
Ģ Paragraph - Inserts a "paragraph" style box of text
Ģ Divider - Inserts a divider line
Ģ Text Input - Inserts text and a small box for text input
Ģ Number - Inserts text and a box for number input
Ģ Multi-line Input - Inserts text and a large, multi-line box for text input
Ģ Dropdown - Inserts text and a drop-down box for input.
Ģ Radio Button - Inserts text and radio buttons to select one option
Ģ Multiple Choice - Inserts text and multiple-choice boxes to select one or more option

Advanced Elements

Below these, there are also several Advanced Elements that you can use if applicable.

Ģ Email - Insert an additional email address field
Ģ Phone - Insert an additional phone number field
Ģ Full Name - Insert an additional name field
Ģ Address - Insert an additional address field
Ģ File Upload - Insert a file upload box
Ģ Video - Insert a video
Ģ Date Picker - Insert a date box
Ģ Time - Insert an hours/minutes box
Ģ Rating - Insert a rating out of 5 stars box
Ģ Image - Insert an image
Ģ Signature - Insert a signature collected box
Ģ Captcha - Insert a CAPTCHA box
Ģ Range - Insert a range bar graphic
Ģ Plus/Minus - Insert a plus/minus box

Adding New Elements

To add a new element to the form, drag and drop the element name from the left side panel into the main form body.

Editing Elements

These elements can be edited by hovering over the section with your cursor and clicking the edit icon .

This will launch the edit options in the right-side menu.

Rearranging Elements

It is also possible to rearrange the order of elements in the form by clicking and holding the rearrange icon and dragging the element into a new position.

Archiving, Activating, and Deleting Elements

To archive or hide an element on the form, click the file box icon and select Yes to the pop-up message " Are you sure you want to archive this element? " This means that only the admin will be able to see the element when viewing the unpublished version of the form.

To activate an element, click on the up arrow icon in the top right corner of the action icons and select Yes to the pop-up message, " Are you sure you want to restore this element as active? "

If you'd like to delete an element, you must first archive it and then you will be able to access the trash can icon used to delete elements.  A pop-up will ask " Are you sure you want to delete this element? " Select the blue Delete button to proceed.

Customizing Elements

Whenever you click on one of your form's elements, the content editor will open on the right side of the screen. Depending on the type of element, there are multiple options to help customize how your quiz will function.

Whenever there is the option to enter text, the element menu will display a text editor box. Any writing inside the box can be formatted using word editing tools. Please be sure to highlight the text before applying a different format. The Label box will most likely contain your question.

You can also add an optional Sub Label or Sub Header to many elements. This will be displayed below the answers.

For any elements with a text input field, you can use a Placeholder to provide an example or hint of what information you are looking for.

The Address element can be formatted as a single line or Multiple Fields . You can also customize which address fields you would like to use.

The Date Picker can be used to collect today's date, a lead's birth date, or any other date information.  You can set the Default to:

Ģ None - leave the date field empty
Ģ Current - populates the field with the date the contract is submitted
Ģ Custom - set a specific date to display in the field

You can also enable Age Verification and set a Minimum Age to complete the form.  The date options can be further restricted to just Past Dates or Future Dates , and the date Format can be customized as well.

Use the Default setting to select a default answer to select.

Insert a Tooltip next to the question to provide additional context or clarify the type of answer you are looking for.

For any question that had more than one option to select, you will see an Options box. Type in each option that you'd like to display for this question, separated by commas (,).

If you would like to make a question mandatory, find the Required section and toggle it to Enabled . You can also enter an Error message to display when users do not respond to mandatory questions.

You also have the option to make a question Read Only so the user cannot select an answer, or Hidden entirely so only the admin can see it.

For elements that ask for a written response, click on Enable Charlimit (character limit) to limit how many characters the lead can use in their answer.

You can insert a File Upload box to collect any documents from your lead. This element can accept the following file formats: PDF, DOC, DOCX, XLS, XLXS, CSV, TXT, RTF, HTML, ZIP, MP3, WMA, MPG, FLV, AVI, JPG, JPEG, PING, and GIF.  You can customize which files types can be uploaded by editing the File Types box. Please make sure that each value is separated by a comma (,) and no spaces.

The File Size Limit can also be restricted by setting a Minimum and/or Maximum size in KB. You can also enable " Multiple" for multiple files to be uploaded in this section and set a limit for the Number of Files .

Form Settings
In addition to the form builder, there is also a form settings tab. To view the options, click Settings next to the Builder tab.

The Form Settings section has four tabs.

Form Settings

The Form Settings section contains several different areas to better customize how your forms behave.

At the top of the page, you can edit your Form name, Form description, and Form page URL .

You can also specify which funnel(s) will collect information from this form.

The Form status can be switched to " Archive " if you no longer want to use this form, or " Un-archive " to make it live again.

The Google reCAPTCHA key option allows you to insert CAPTCHA boxes into your forms. You will need to generate a Google reCAPTCHA API key to set it up. Click here to learn how to generate the API key.

Google autofill can be enabled or disabled depending on if you would like the form to automatically suggest addresses based on previous searches and location bounds.

A Form tracking code can be entered into the box to help with your analytics.

You can also set a Default thank you message after the lead completes the form.  There are options to create a Custom "thank you" message, use an External link , or select an existing " Thank you" page from another form.

If you create a new Custom "thank you" message, you can also insert a Page Tracking Code from Facebook Pixel or Google Analytics, for example, to see who views the page.

At the bottom of the page, click the blue Save Draft button to update your draft with any changes.

Conditions

This section controls any conditional logic inside your form.

Create A New Field Condition

Click the Show/Hide field button to add a new condition based on the input your lead enters.

Conditions are based on "if" statements to perform a certain action depending on the input or selection made.

IF: Begin by using the drop-down menu to select the field.

STATE: Select the "state" of the field. Depending on the type of input, the options are:

Ģ Is Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is equal to the lead's answer
Ģ Is Not Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is NOT equal to the lead's answer
Ģ Contains - The action will be performed if the input contains the correct value anywhere the lead's answer
Ģ Does Not Contain - The action will be performed if the input does NOT contain the correct value anywhere the lead's answer
Ģ Starts With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value matches the lead's answer
Ģ Ends With - The action will be performed if the end of the value matches the lead's answer
Ģ Is Empty - The action will be performed if the field is left empty
Ģ Is Filled - The action will be performed if the field is filled

VALUE: Enter the value that the input will be compared to.

DO: Select the action that will be performed if the condition is met. The options are:

Ģ Show - The field will be shown
Ģ Hide - The field will be hidden

FIELD: Select the field that will be affected by the action.

Click the blue Save button to save the condition.

Create A New Email Condition

Click the Send email button to add a new condition based on the input your lead enters.

Conditions are based on "if" statements to perform a certain action depending on the input or selection made.

IF: Begin by using the drop-down menu to select the field.

STATE: Select the "state" of the field. Depending on the type of input, the options are:

Ģ Is Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is equal to the lead's answer
Ģ Is Not Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is NOT equal to the lead's answer
Ģ Contains - The action will be performed if the input contains the correct value anywhere the lead's answer
Ģ Does Not Contain - The action will be performed if the input does NOT contain the correct value anywhere the lead's answer
Ģ Starts With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value matches the lead's answer
Ģ Ends With - The action will be performed if the end of the value matches the lead's answer
Ģ Is Empty - The action will be performed if the field is left empty
Ģ Is Filled - The action will be performed if the field is filled

VALUE: Enter the value that the input will be compared to.

SEND EMAIL TO: Enter the email address that the email will be sent to.

SUBJECT: Enter the subject of the email.

MESSAGE: Enter the message of the email.

Click the blue Save button to save the condition.

Emails

This section controls the emails that are sent when a lead form is submitted.

Admin Notification Email

This email is sent to the admin when a lead form is submitted.

You can edit the Subject and Message of the email.

You can also use Shortcodes to insert dynamic information into the email.

Click the blue Save button to save the email.

Lead Notification Email

This email is sent to the lead when a lead form is submitted.

You can edit the Subject and Message of the email.

You can also use Shortcodes to insert dynamic information into the email.

Click the blue Save button to save the email.

Integrations

This section controls the integrations that are connected to your lead form.

Mailchimp

You can connect your lead form to Mailchimp to automatically add leads to your Mailchimp audience.

Click the Connect button to connect your Mailchimp account.

ActiveCampaign

You can connect your lead form to ActiveCampaign to automatically add leads to your ActiveCampaign lists.

Click the Connect button to connect your ActiveCampaign account.

Zapier

You can connect your lead form to Zapier to automatically send leads to other apps.

Click the Connect button to connect your Zapier account.

Preview
To preview your form, click the Preview button at the top right corner of the page.

This will open a new tab with a preview of your form.

Saving and Publishing Your Form
To save your form, click the blue Save button at the top right corner of the page.

To publish your form, click the blue Publish button at the top right corner of the page.

Once your form is published, you can embed it on your website or share the link with your leads.



Lead tags
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/lead-tags

Lead tags
Learn how to add and manage lead tags in the Leads Module.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to manage your lead tags
Ģ How to add tags to your leads

Lead Tags
Lead tags are tags used to help better categorize and sort your leads. You can use tags to do things like:
Ģ Sort your leads by the industry they are interested in. If you are a cleaning company, you may have industries like commercial, residential, office, home, etc. that can be turned into tags.
Ģ Display your lead origin/source more readily. Leads come from all sorts of places: forms, Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, Google, etc. Sources are a great use of the tags feature.
Ģ Tag leads according to potential. You can use tags like "Very Interested", "Somewhat Interested", and "Not Interested" to gauge the customer's likelihood of using your company's services.

Your tags can be managed from the Tags section at the top of the Leads dashboard.

Tags are listed according to their display order and will also show you how many leads are associated with each tag.

To add a new tag, click the Add New button near the top right corner of the page.

Enter the name of the customer and the order of priority you would like for the tag, then click the blue Add button.

To edit an existing tag, click the Options button under the Actions column and select "Edit".

This will allow you to edit the tag's name and display order.

You can delete a tag by selecting Options and then Delete.

Only press delete if you are certain you do not want to use that tag anymore.

Tagging to Your Leads
To tag your leads, click on a lead's name anywhere in the leads module to visit that lead's profile. Here you can leave notes, check on work progress, and manage the tags attached to your lead.

Scroll down the side menu on the left until you view the Add Tag field. Type or select the tags from the drop-down menu below.



Lead settings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/lead-settings

Lead settings
Learn where to manage your general lead settings and sources.

Last updated on 25 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to locate the settings for the leads module
Ģ Where to manage your lead sources

Lead Settings
The Leads Module settings section contains several different options to help you manage your leads. You can view these settings by clicking on Settings in the top right corner of the module and selecting the Settings option.

The first set of settings can be found in the General tab at the top of the page.

The first question pertains to when the "new" tag is displayed on a lead.

For the question, "How would you like to display the new tag?", you can select one of two options:
Ģ "Based on view" means the "new" tag will be displayed until that lead is opened.
Ģ "Based on days" allows you to select a period of 1 through 7 days in which the "new" tag will be displayed on that lead.

The next setting, "Would you like to enable owners for leads?" allows you to decide if you'd like to assign a staff member as the "owner" of a particular lead.
Ģ "Yes" will allow the admin/staff to assign an owner to a lead whenever it has been added to the system.
Ģ "No" means there will not be an option to assign an owner to any of the leads.

The following setting, "Would you like to enable owners for work progress?" allows you to decide if you would like to assign a staff member as the "owner" for work progress on a lead when they've been added to one or more funnels.
Ģ "Yes" will allow the admin/staff to assign a work progress owner once a lead has been added to one or more funnels. This helps track which staff member is working the lead.
Ģ "No" means the lead will not have an option for a work progress owner.

The final setting in the Settings section is to "Select a theme mode for leads."
Ģ Select "Light" to use the light theme for the leads dashboard.
Ģ Select "Dark" to use the dark theme for the leads dashboard.

Lead Sources
The second tab under the Settings section is the Sources tab.

If you select "Yes" for "Activate sources", you will have the option to use both default and custom sources to assign to your leads.

Default Sources The default sources that come with the Leads Module include:
Ģ Direct
Ģ Bing
Ģ Yahoo
Ģ Tiktok
Ģ Thumbtack
Ģ Thread
Ģ Twitter
Ģ Yelp
Ģ Instagram
Ģ Facebook
Ģ Google
Ģ Import
Ģ Manual
Ģ Other

Custom Sources In addition to the default sources, you have a direct source for your store's URLs.

You can also add your own custom sources by clicking on the Custom tab and using the Add New Source button.
Ģ Enter the Source name into the first field.
Ģ Enter the Source URL(s) into the second field.
Ģ Enable the source by clicking on the Disabled button to switch it to Enabled.
Ģ Click the "Save" button to add the custom source.

You can edit or delete custom sources by using the Edit and Delete options located beneath the Actions column under the Custom section.



Lead notifications
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/lead-notifications

Lead notifications
Learn how to manage notifications for email, SMS, and system alerts in the Lead Module.

Last updated on 27 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:

Ģ What types of lead notifications are available in the Lead Module
Ģ How to set up, enable/disable, and edit email notifications
Ģ How to set up, enable/disable, and edit SMS notifications
Ģ How to enable/disable and edit system alerts

Types of Lead Notifications
BookingKoala has built an extensive Notifications section to help automate lead communications from your business. Three types of notifications can be enabled for the Leads Module:

Ģ Email notifications
Ģ SMS (text) notifications
Ģ System alerts

You can manage your lead notifications by going to:

Leads > Settings > Notifications

Email Notifications

Email notifications are notifications that get sent out from BookingKoala to a user's email address. Whenever a certain action takes place inside the Leads Module, a corresponding email will be sent to the email address associated with the action.

Email notifications can be sent to leads as well as the admin/staff.

Add or Change the Send Out Email Address

By default, emails are sent out by whatever send out email address you set up per the instructions in this article. However, you can use this section at the top of the Emails tab to set up a specific email address to use for this purpose.

To set up or change the email address you use to send lead notifications, follow these steps:

1054 Enter a valid email address into the Default send out email field. If an email is already in the field, click the grey Change button and enter a new email into the box.

? Using a domain-based email address like "support@mybusiness.com" or "hello@cleaningservice.com" instead of a personal email address like "firstname.lastname@gmail.com" or "myfullname@yahoo.com" can help authenticate your email address so emails do not go into the spam folder. To learn more about how to prevent emails from being spammed or spoofed, click here.
1055 Click the blue Send verification email button. Check that email address's inbox for a verification email from Support@bookingkoala.com. Inside the email, there will be a link that you must click. Once you've clicked the link, you will be redirected to an Amazon Web Service (AWS) page that says " Congratulations! ". Once you see this, your email is now verified and you can begin sending out email notifications.
1056 Optionally, use a separate Reply-to email address by entering it into the field below.
1057 Enter in the Sender Name you want recipients to see.

? For example, your display name may be " Demo 2 LLC " if your company is called this.
1058 Click the blue Save Changes button to update your sender email address details.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page confirming you have updated/added your sender email address successfully.

Master Templates

Below the sender email address area, the Master Templates section allows you to create custom email templates to match your business's branding. You can update the existing default templates or add your own using the Add master template button.

Master templates can save you a lot of time when it comes to customizing the appearance of your emails. Once enabled, these can be applied to any other email template in the lead section to display custom headers, footers, and other sections.

To edit an existing master template, click on Options below the action column and select Edit.

To add your own custom master templates, click the blue Add master template button.

To apply a master template to your existing email notifications, select Options and click on Appy to email .

Click here to learn more about how to set up and use master templates for your email notifications.

Edit, Enable, or Disable Email Templates

Below the master templates section are the email templates. These templates are organized into three categories:

1059 Lead - Email notifications that are sent to the lead from your company.
1060 Admin - Email notifications that are sent to your admin/staff regarding leads.
1061 Canned response - Custom email templates your admin/staff can manually send to individual leads.

Each notification has an Enabled/Disabled button that can be switched on or off depending on your preference, the name and description of each notification will provide details as to when the notification is triggered, and the Edit button can be used to edit the content and appearance of the notification.

Almost all of the templates in BookingKoala make use of shortcodes to communicate details by customizing the information presented in the notification. You can insert shortcodes to further customize your notifications by clicking on the View shortcodes button at the top right corner of the page when you open a notification to edit it.

In addition to using the Save button to update the template, there are also buttons to Send a test email and Restore [template] to default if you'd like to start editing from the beginning again.

SMS Notifications

SMS notifications are included in the Growing and Premium Subscriptions .

SMS notifications are notifications that get sent out from BookingKoala to a user's phone number via text message through the use of a third-party integration called Twilio . Whenever a certain action takes place inside BookingKoala, a corresponding text will be sent to the phone number associated with the account.

To manage your SMS lead notifications, click on the SMS tab at the top of the Notifications page.

Add or Change the Send Out Phone Number

By default, emails are sent out by whatever send out phone number you set up per the instructions in this article. However, you can use this section at the top of the SMS tab to set up a specific Twilio account to use for this purpose.

To set up or change the Twilio account you use to send lead notifications, follow these steps:

1062 Enter your Twilio account ID into the first box. Your account ID will always begin with "AC" and then a long string of numbers and letters. You can find your account ID in your Twilio dashboard by going to Account > Manage Account > General Settings .
1063 API key - Copy and paste the Auth Token into the box that says " API Key ". In your Twilio dashboard, scroll down to the Account Info section.
1064 Phone number - Copy and paste your phone number into the third box.

? Make sure your phone number is entered exactly as it is pictured under " My Twilio phone number ". Enter " + " plus your country code followed by the rest of the phone number.

Ģ For example, " +15672299756 " is correct .
Ģ "15672299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "5672299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "+1(567)2299756" is incorrect.
Ģ "+1-567-229-9756"is incorrect.  

     You can also find your phone number by going to **Phone Numbers > Manage > Active Numbers** in the left-side menu in your Twilio dashboard.
1065 Once you have completed each field, click the blue " Save " button to connect the Twilio account to your Lead Module.

Edit, Enable, or Disable SMS Templates

Below the send out email section are the SMS templates. These templates are organized into three categories:

1066 Lead - SMS notifications that are sent to the lead from your company.
1067 Admin - SMS notifications that are sent to your admin/staff regarding leads.
1068 Canned response - Custom SMS templates your admin/staff can manually send to individual leads.

Like emails, each SMS notification has an Enabled/Disabled button that can be switched on or off depending on your preference, the name and description of each notification will provide details as to when the notification is triggered, and the Edit button can be used to edit the content of the notification.

Many of the SMS templates in BookingKoala make use of shortcodes to communicate details by customizing the information presented in the notification. You can insert shortcodes to further customize your notifications by clicking on the Insert shortcodes button at the top right corner of the page when you open a notification to edit it.

In addition to using the Save button to update the template, there are also buttons to Send a test SMS and Restore [template] to default if you'd like to start editing from the beginning again.

System Alerts

System alerts are included in the Growing and Premium Subscriptions .

System alerts are notifications that are displayed at the top-right corner of your dashboard whenever a new action has been taken by an admin, staff member, or lead.

Only admin and staff are able to receive and view system alerts. System alerts pertain to day-to-day operations, so they are only displayed from the backend of BookingKoala when logged into an admin or staff account.

Specifically, you can enable these alerts when a new lead is added to the system and when a new note has been added for an admin or staff member.

Edit, Enable, or Disable System Alerts

Like email and SMS notifications, each system alert has an Enabled/Disabled button that can be switched on or off depending on your preference, the name and description of each alert will provide details as to when the alert is triggered, and the Edit button can be used to edit the content of the alert.

In addition to the Save button, there also is a Restore to default button if you need to restore the alert to its original state.



Lead logs
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/lead-logs

Lead logs
Learn where to view system, email, and SMS logs for the Leads Module.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to locate the logs section for the Leads Module
Ģ Where to view the system logs
Ģ Where to view the email logs
Ģ Where to view the SMS logs

Lead Logs
There are three different types of logs in the Leads Module: system logs, email logs, and SMS logs. You can view a list of each type by going to the Settings section of the Leads dashboard and selecting Logs.

Ģ System logs display all of the edits and changes made in the system by you and your staff. Logs can be filtered by activities relating to leads, tags, sources, funnels, custom fields, forms, thank you pages, notifications, import/sync, and settings.
Ģ Email logs show all of the emails sent by the system, including those that have been rejected, bounced, complained, delivered, opened, and clicked. Email logs can also be filtered by email status. To learn how to set up email notifications for the Leads Module, click here.
Ģ SMS logs display all of the SMS sent by the system and can be filtered by date. To learn how to set up SMS notifications for the Leads Module, click here.



Leads module overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/leads-module-overview

Leads module overview
Learn about the BookingKoala Leads Module and how to use its features.

Last updated on 28 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ What features are included in the Leads Module
Ģ Where to locate the Leads Module
Ģ Which BookingKoala subscriptions include the Leads Module

How do I use the Leads Module?
The Leads Module is designed to help you gather leads, track progress, and cultivate leads into customers, employees, etc. Leads can be imported from another software or gathered via a customizable lead form, which allows visitors to submit a request for a quote or inquire more about your services, prospect providers to fill out an application or collect feedback from your customers. Once a lead has been gathered, you can track that lead's progress in a funnel, noting if the lead has booked a service, how much revenue is related to the lead, and other custom fields.

Click here to learn about the best ways to set up and use the leads module funnels.

Click here to learn about hot leads and how to access them (very important leads).

Click here to learn about abandoned form leads.

Click here to learn how to build a new leads funnel.

Click here to learn how to add a lead to a funnel.

Click here to learn how to sync leads to your funnels.

Click here to learn how to import leads into your funnels.

Click here to learn how to build lead forms.

Click here to learn how to add a leads form to your website.

Click here to learn how to build action forms.

Click here to learn how to manage other types of forms from the Leads Module.

Click here to learn how to filter leads and export them from the module.

Click here to learn how to manage your Leads Module settings and sources.

Click here to learn how to manage lead notifications for email, SMS, and system alerts.

Click here to learn where to view system, email, and SMS logs for the Leads Module.

Click here to learn how to locate and use the various tools on the leads details page.

Click here to learn how to edit or delete a lead.

Click here to learn how to combine up to three lead profiles into one to reduce duplicate entries.

Click here to learn how to create, add, and manage tags on your leads.

Click here to learn how to send forms and messages to your leads.

Click here to learn how to use the Smart Documents feature to send leads signable documents.

Click here to learn how to read the lead reports section.

Click here to learn how to integrate Google ads with your Leads module

Click here to learn how to integrate Facebook Ads with your Leads module

Click here to learn how to integrate Zapier with your Leads module.

Where to Locate the Leads Module
The Leads Module is located just below the Bookings button on the left side panel.

This button launches your leads dashboard.

Who has access to the Leads Module?
If you have the Starter or Growing Subscriptions, you can build out one form and collect/view leads from that one form.

To access the rest of the great features in the leads module, as well as the ability to make multiple lead forms, is only included in the Premium subscription.



How to build an action form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-build-an-action-form

How to build an action form
Learn how to build action forms to automatically capture feedback and data in lead funnels in the Leads Module.

Last updated on 27 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to build a new action form
Ģ How to manage an action form's settings
Ģ How to connect an action form to a leads funnel

Add a New Action Form
An action form is a form that can be embedded into a funnel to automatically display depending on input that is entered into the funnel's steps. Action forms can be used by the staff and admin to collect internal notes and data on a lead that is a part of one or more funnels.

To build a new action form, go to the Forms section at the top of the page, click on the Action Forms tab on the right side of the page, and then click the blue Create New button.

A pop-up will ask you to create a name for the form. Once you enter the form name, click the blue Save button and you will be redirected to the form builder.

Form Properties
Along the right side column, you will see options for the page style, form style, and custom style.

Ģ The page style section contains options for the page's color schemes, background color, and/or background image.
Ģ The form style section contains options to change the color, size, and font used in the form's buttons, container, header, input, labels, paragraphs, sub-labels, and tool tips.
Ģ The custom style section contains a box where custom CSS can be entered to modify the appearance of the form. After the CSS is pasted into the box, click the blue Save button to apply the changes.

Form Elements
Unlike lead forms, action forms do not have predefined fields because they are already directly linked to the leads via the funnel. However, they contain the same 10 basic elements and 13 advanced elements to build your form from.

Basic Elements There are a variety of different Basic Elements that can be added to your form from the left-side menu.
Ģ Header - Inserts a header and optional subheader
Ģ Label - Inserts a "label" style line of text
Ģ Paragraph - Inserts a "paragraph" style box of text
Ģ Divider - Inserts a divider line
Ģ Text Input - Inserts text and a small box for text input
Ģ Number - Inserts text and a box for number input
Ģ Multi-line Input - Inserts text and a large, multi-line box for text input
Ģ Dropdown - Inserts text and a drop-down box for input.
Ģ Radio Button - Inserts text and radio buttons to select one option
Ģ Multiple Choice - Inserts text and multiple-choice boxes to select one or more option

Advanced Elements Below these, there are also several Advanced Elements that you can use if applicable.
Ģ Email - Insert an additional email address field
Ģ Phone - Insert an additional phone number field
Ģ Full Name - Insert an additional name field
Ģ Address - Insert an additional address field
Ģ File Upload - Insert a file upload box
Ģ Video - Insert a video
Ģ Date Picker - Insert a date box
Ģ Time - Insert an hours/minutes box
Ģ Rating - Insert a rating out of 5 stars box
Ģ Image - Insert an image
Ģ Signature - Insert a signature collected box
Ģ Captcha - Insert a CAPTCHA box
Ģ Range - Insert a range bar graphic
Ģ Plus/Minus - Insert a plus/minus box

Adding New Elements To add a new element to the form, drag and drop the element name from the left side panel into the main form body.

Editing Elements These elements can be edited by hovering over the section with your cursor and clicking the edit icon. This will launch the edit options in the right-side menu.

Rearranging Elements It is also possible to rearrange the order of elements in the form by clicking and holding the rearrange icon and dragging the element into a new position.

Archiving, Activating, and Deleting Elements To archive or hide an element on the form, click the file box icon and select Yes to the pop-up message "Are you sure you want to archive this element?" This means that only the admin will be able to see the element when viewing the unpublished version of the form.

To activate an element, click on the up arrow icon in the top right corner of the action icons and select Yes to the pop-up message, "Are you sure you want to restore this element as active?"

If you'd like to delete an element, you must first archive it and then you will be able to access the trash can icon used to delete elements. A pop-up will ask "Are you sure you want to delete this element?" Select the blue Delete button to proceed.

Customizing Elements Whenever you click on one of your form's elements, the content editor will open on the right side of the screen. Depending on the type of element, there are multiple options to help customize how your quiz will function.

Whenever there is the option to enter text, the element menu will display a text editor box. Any writing inside the box can be formatted using word editing tools. Please be sure to highlight the text before applying a different format. The Label box will most likely contain your question or a statement.

You can also add an optional Sub Label or Sub Header to many elements. This will be displayed below the answers.

For any elements with a text input field, you can use a Placeholder to provide an example or hint of what information you are looking for.

The Address element can be formatted as a single line or Multiple Fields. You can also customize which address fields you would like to use.

The Date Picker can be used to collect today's date, a lead's birth date, or any other date information. You can set the Default to:
Ģ None - leave the date field empty
Ģ Current - populates the field with the date the contract is submitted
Ģ Custom - set a specific date to display in the field

You can also enable Age Verification and set a Minimum Age to complete the form. The date options can be further restricted to just Past Dates or Future Dates, and the date Format can be customized as well.

Use the Default setting to select a default answer to select.

Insert a Tooltip next to the question to provide additional context or clarify the type of answer you are looking for.

For any question that had more than one option to select, you will see an Options box. Type in each option that you'd like to display for this question, separated by commas (,).

If you would like to make a question mandatory, find the Required section and toggle it to Enabled. You can also enter an Error message to display when users do not respond to mandatory questions.

You also have the option to make a question Read Only so the user cannot select an answer, or Hidden entirely so only the admin can see it.

For elements that ask for a written response, click on Enable Charlimit (character limit) to limit how many characters the lead can use in their answer.

You can insert a File Upload box to collect any documents from your lead. This element can accept the following file formats: PDF, DOC, DOCX, XLS, XLXS, CSV, TXT, RTF, HTML, ZIP, MP3, WMA, MPG, FLV, AVI, JPG, JPEG, PING, and GIF. You can customize which files types can be uploaded by editing the File Types box. Please make sure that each value is separated by a comma (,) and no spaces.

The File Size Limit can also be restricted by setting a Minimum and/or Maximum size in KB. You can also enable "Multiple" for multiple files to be uploaded in this section and set a limit for the Number of Files.

Form Settings
In addition to the form builder, there is also a form settings tab. To view the options, click Settings next to the Builder tab.

The Form Settings section has two tabs.

Form Settings At the top of the page, you can edit your Form name, Form status, and Google reCAPTCHA key.

The Google reCAPTCHA key option allows you to insert CAPTCHA boxes into your forms. You will need to generate a Google reCAPTCHA API key to set it up. Click here to learn how to generate the API key.

Below here is a list of all the funnels from which you can trigger this action form.

And, the corresponding custom field options with columns from where you want to trigger the action form.

So custom fields like "won" or "lost" will trigger the column "Won/Lost" to display an interactive form, or like "Done" and "Waiting" will trigger an action form while "Does not apply" will not.

Conditions This section controls any conditional logic inside your form.

Create A New Field Condition Click the Show/Hide field button to add a new condition based on the input your lead enters.

Conditions are based on "if" statements to perform a certain action depending on the input or selection made.

Ģ IF: Begin by using the drop-down menu to select the field.
Ģ STATE: Select the "state" of the field. Depending on the type of input, the options are:
? Is Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is equal to the lead's answer
? Is Not Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is NOT equal to the lead's answer
? Contains - The action will be performed if the input contains the correct value anywhere the lead's answer
? Does Not Contain - The action will be performed if the input does NOT contain the correct value anywhere the lead's answer
? Starts With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value matches the lead's answer
? Doesn't Start With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value does not match the lead's answer
? Ends With - The action will be performed if the ending of the value matches the lead's answer
? Doesn't End With - The action will be performed if the ending of the value does not match the lead's answer
? Is Empty - The action will be performed if the input box is left empty.
? Is Filled - The action will be performed if the input box is filled.
Ģ TARGET: If you are using a state that compares the input to another answer, select whether you want to use a value or another field to compare the input.
Ģ VALUE: Select a value/answer you created for this field for the comparison.
Ģ ANOTHER FIELD: Select a value/answer from a different field's value for the comparison.
Ģ DO: Select the type of action you want to occur when the condition is met.
? Hide - Hide another field if the condition is met
? Show - Show another field if the condition is met.
? Show Multiple - Show multiple fields if the condition is met.
? Hide Multiple - Hide multiple fields if the condition is met.
Ģ FIELD: Select the field(s) to show or hide.

After selecting each option, click the blue Save button to add your condition to this form.

Add Multiple IF Rules and Actions You can also add multiple rules or actions within a condition by clicking the blue "+" icon.

If there is more than one IF statement, you can select whether you want the actions to be performed if Any or All rules are met.

Where to View Existing ConditionsEvery condition you create will be shown in this section as well.
You can use the action buttons to Edit, Disable, or Delete existing conditions.

Saving and Publishing Your Form
Once you are satisfied with your form, you'll want to make sure it is saved into the system.

Save DraftClick Save Draft on the top-right corner of the builder to save a draft of your form.
You can find your saved drafts at any time by going to the Forms page.
Click the drop-down menu where it says Active and select Draft.

Save and PublishIf you are ready for your form to be used by leads, click the blue Save & Publish button to push it live.
You will see a green pop-up notification in the top right corner of the page that says Form saved & published successfully.



How to import leads
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-import-leads

How to import leads
Article Title
How to import leads

Overview
Learn how to import external leads from your BookingKoala account.
The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to import leads
Ģ How to sync leads from your BookingKoala account

Navigation Paths
Ģ To import leads from a file: Go to Settings > Imports
Ģ To check import status in system logs: Go to Leads > Settings > Logs > System Logs

Features and Step-by-Step Instructions
Import Leads
1069 Click on the Settings tab near the top right corner of the page and select Imports.
1070 Click on Start an Import.
1071 Click the blue "Upload File" button to select the file you would like to import.
1072 Specify which funnel(s) you would like to add the imported leads to (if any).
1073 Click the blue Next button to proceed.
1074 Match your data columns to the form fields so they can be imported and mapped properly.
1075 Once all columns have been mapped, click the blue Import button at the bottom right side of the page.
1076 Your import will begin processing immediately. You can view it in the Import History section just below the Import and Sync options.
1077 Click the orange Reload button to check on the progress of your import. The status will change from Processing to Complete.

Important Notes & Limitations for Importing Leads:
Ģ Only .CSV and .XLSX files are accepted.
Ģ Import limits:
? File size: 50MB
? Contacts: 50000 leads per day
Ģ You can download a sample file by clicking on the Sample file for lead link below the Import and Sync options to use as a reference for formatting.
Ģ Once complete, you can view total records, new records, leads added to funnels, and an error count.
Ģ To download a file of failed records, click the orange Learn More link below the Complete tag and select Download.
Ģ Reasons a record may fail to import:
? The email and phone numbers are empty.
? The email or phone number already exists.
? There are use of special characters in the first or last name.
? The email or phone number is not valid.
Ģ You can use action options to View lead(s) or Undo the import if you made an error.

How to Sync Leads
1078 Click on the Settings tab near the top right corner of the page and select Imports.
1079 Click the blue Sync from BookingKoala button beneath where it says Sync.
1080 From below the New Import tab, select one of the following options:
? All booked customers - Sync customers who presently have a booking with your company.
? Specific customers - Sync specific customers by name.
? Not booked customers - Sync customers who currently do not have any bookings with your company.

Sync Specific Customers
1081 Select the Specific customers option.
1082 Use the Select customers field to search and select customers by name, email address, or phone number.
1083 Choose which funnel(s) you would like to add the customers.
1084 Click the blue Import button to sync the data.
1085 A green system alert will confirm the import has begun. Check system logs later for completion.

Sync Not Booked or All Booked Customers: One Time
1086 Select All booked customers or Not booked customers.
1087 Choose the one time import option.
1088 Use the customer-created date field to select a date range for the import data.
1089 Choose which funnel(s) you would like to add the customers.
1090 Click the blue Import button to sync the data.

Sync Not Booked or All Booked Customers: Scheduled Import
1091 Select All booked customers or Not booked customers.
1092 Select the Scheduled import option.
1093 Add a name to the import (e.g., "Spring One-Time Customers").
1094 Select an import start date and import start time.
1095 Set Repeats options:
? Weekly on Monday
? Every 2 weeks on Saturday
? Monthly on the 15th of the month
? Monthly on the 28th of the month
? Use the Custom Schedule button to set your own repeating time frame.
1096 Decide which week to consider for the import (Previous or Next).
1097 Decide how many days to consider (1-7 days).
1098 Decide if you allow duplicate work progresses in the selected funnel(s) (Yes or No).
1099 Select filters for the import:
? Status
? Rating
? Frequencies
? Industries
? Locations
? Service Category
1100 Choose which funnel(s) you would like to add the customers.
1101 Click the blue Import button to sync the data.

Import History
Ģ Recurring scheduled imports can be seen under the Scheduled import tab.
Ģ Import history is listed below the Import and Sync options on the main Imports page.
Ģ Each import provides the Option to View lead(s) that were imported or Undo import to redo an import for any reason.



How to manage other forms and popups
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-manage-other-forms-and-popups

How to manage other forms and popups
Learn where to manage other system forms and popups in the Leads Module.

Last updated on 28 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ Where to manage the rest of your forms and pop-up settings

What are "other forms" and popups?
Simply put, "other forms" means any other forms that can be found in the system, including the main system forms like your booking form, pop-ups, hiring forms, campaign forms, and short forms.

Thanks to the new Leads Module, all of these system forms and pop-ups can now be connected to your lead funnels.

Other System Forms & Popups
Beyond the lead form and the action form, there are other forms and pop-ups found throughout the BookingKoala system. To manage how these forms and pop-ups connect to your campaign audiences, go to the Forms section and click on the Other System Forms and Pop-Ups tab.

There are 5 categories within this tab:

Ģ Main System Forms
? Booking Form
? Gift Cards page
? Earn Credits page
? Sign Up page
Ģ Pop-Ups
? Click here to learn how to add a pop-up to the BookingKoala website and theme builder.
Ģ Hiring Forms
? Click here to learn how to build a hiring form.
Ģ Campaign Forms
? Click here to learn how to build a campaign form.
Ģ Short Forms
? Coming soon!

Use the options under the Actions column to Enable/Disable tracking for each form/pop-up and the Settings option to control which lists leads are sorted into.

Under the Settings section, you can sort users into specific lists per this article.



Lead profiles
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/lead-profiles

Lead profiles
Learn how to locate and use the various tools on the leads details page.

Last updated on 26 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to access a lead's profile
Ģ How to combine leads
Ģ How to add a lead to funnels
Ģ How to send messages to a lead
Ģ How to send forms to a lead
Ģ How to edit or delete a lead
Ģ How to use the Work Progress section
Ģ Where to view lead-related Activities
Ģ How to view and add notes and comments to the Notes section
Ģ Where to upload, download, and view lead-related files
Ģ How to prepare, send, and sign Smart Documents

Lead Profiles
In the Leads Module, each lead has a profile page with numerous tools to help you stay in contact, keep records, send and sign documents, and more. To access a lead's profile, go to the Leads section or locate a lead in the Funnels section and click on a lead's name.

On the left side of the page, you will see the lead's basic information including their name and any tags associated with their account.

Below are several buttons to help with lead management.

1102 Combine - The combine feature allows you to combine up to three leads at a time into a single profile.
1103 Funnels - Add the lead to one or more funnels. Funnels can be managed under the Work Progress section.
1104 Messages - Send personal messages to your leads to nurture them.
1104.1 Send Email - Send an email to your lead.
1104.2 Send SMS - Send a text to your lead.
1105 Forms - Send forms directly to your lead.
1105.1 Email - Send forms via email.
1105.2 SMS - Send forms via text.
1106 Invoice - Create an invoice for your lead.
1107 Notes - Add notes to the lead's profile.
1108 Actions - Additional action options include editing and deleting the lead.
1108.1 Edit - Edit the lead's basic information.
1108.2 Delete - Delete the lead entirely.
1109 Create Customer - Convert the lead into a customer.
1110 Original Source - Set the original source for the lead.
1111 Lead Owner - Set a lead owner.
1112 Add Tag - Add new and existing tags to a lead to keep them organized.

Then, below, are the lead's email(s) and phone number(s).

Leads Dashboard
On the main dashboard of the lead, there are five main sections to help with lead management.

1113 Work Progress - Manage the lead's funnel(s) from this section.
1114 Activities - See logs for the lead, emails, and SMS. Some logs have options to download, resend, or view the communication sent.
1115 Notes - The Notes section can be used by the admin and staff to add notes to the lead's profile. Users can add new notes, add comments, and tag users in the Notes section.
1116 Files - The Files section allows you to upload, download, and view files related to the lead.
1117 Smart Documents - The Smart Documents feature allows you to upload documents to share, fill out, and sign. Signatures come complete with an audit system to track when each signee completed the document.



How to combine leads
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-combine-leads

How to combine leads
Learn how to combine up to three leads into one profile.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to combine leads

Combining Leads
Let's say you are going through your leads module and notice three new leads have come all with similar information! Perhaps you have multiple pop-ups and the same client filled all of them out. Whatever the case may be, it is important to have a way to stay organized in scenarios like this. This is where the Combine Leads feature comes in. The Combine Leads feature allows you to combine those profiles into one by picking which details are primary versus secondary.

To use this feature, begin by clicking on the names of one of the leads.

This will bring you to that lead's Details page. Here there are several different buttons below the lead's profile picture and name.

Click on the "Combine" button and a Combine Profile pop-up will appear. You will see an overview of the lead's information, including a phone number, email address, and more.

To select the next lead, use the Select New Lead search bar near the top right corner of the pop-up to search for the profile by name. Click to select the profile and you will see the second lead's information has been added to the pop-up below. You can now add a third lead if needed and then move on to the next step.

There is a bullet point next to each piece of information. Select the primary options for each piece of data and then click the Next button.

On the next page, you will finalize the combination by typing the word "CONFIRM" into the field at the bottom and then clicking the "Combine" button.

You will see a green system alert at the top right corner of the page confirming the profiles have been combined successfully.

You can now view the profile of the newly combined lead and see all of the information combined into a single profile under the Primary and Secondary sections.



How to send messages and forms to leads
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-messages-and-forms-to-leads

How to send messages and forms to leads
Learn how to use the Leads Module to send messages, including forms, to your leads.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to send emails and SMS to leads
Ģ How to send forms to leads

How to Send Messages To Leads
One of the great features included in the Leads Module is the ability to message leads via email or SMS. There are plenty of reasons why you may want to connect with your lead, like letting them know about special promotions and offers, answering questions about your business, or extending a personal thank you for their interest. Whatever the case may be, the process for sending messages is as simple as going to your lead's profile.

To begin, click on the lead's name to visit their details page / profile.

This will bring you to that lead's Details page. Here there are several different buttons below the lead's profile picture and name. Click on the "Messages" button.

From here, decide if you would like to send an email or SMS. Keep in mind that most leads are more likely to respond to a shorter message than a formal email.

Send Email

To send an email, click Messages and select "Send email". An email template pop-up will appear with the lead's primary email address. You can CC any other email address, add a Subject, and construct the Email body using the pop-up.

If you have created any canned responses under the Leads Module Notifications section, you can click use the Templates button to insert those into the email body.

You can also save and add a signature using the Signature button.

To further customize the email, shortcodes can be inserted via the Insert short codes button.

If you'd like to send a test email to see what your message will look like, click the white Send test email button at the bottom right corner of the popup. Enter an email address into the main field and then click Send.

When you are ready to send your email, click the blue Send button at the bottom right corner of the pop-up. You will see a green system alert confirming the email was sent successfully.

Send SMS

To send an email, click Messages and select "Send SMS". A Send SMS template pop-up will appear with the lead's primary phone number.

Besides the main Message field, there are several buttons to help you customize your SMS. The link button allows you to insert links. The Insert short codes button allows you to insert SMS-friendly shortcodes to personalize your email content.

The Send test SMS button allows you to send a test SMS of this message to any number you'd like.

The Choose Template button allows you to insert any SMS templates you created in the Lead Module Notifications section.

Once you are ready to send your text, click the blue Send button at the bottom right corner of the popup.

A green system alert will appear letting you know that the SMS has been sent successfully.

How to Send Forms to Leads
Just like messages, forms can also be sent via email or SMS. This can come in handy if you are using forms to collect more information about your leads, set up an estimate, etc. Let's say you are a cleaning business and you are running a pop-up ad for people interested in Spring Cleaning promotions. You could create an estimate form to gather more details and get the client's preference of date and time for scheduling. This makes sending forms all the more important for your business.

To send a form to a lead, first go to the lead's profile by clicking on their name.

Once on the lead's profile page, click on the Forms button beneath the lead's profile picture and name.

Next, select whether you'd like to send the form via email or SMS.

After this, select which form(s) will be sent to the lead. Then, click the blue Next button.

After this, you'll see a preview of the email or SMS you are about to send with the form(s). You can edit the template, set a subject, and review the email or text before you are ready to send it.

Once the message has been prepared, the form(s) can be sent by clicking the blue "Send" button. A green system alert will appear in the top right corner confirming that the forms have been sent successfully.



How to edit or delete a lead
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-edit-or-delete-a-lead

How to edit or delete a lead
Learn how to edit a lead's basic information and how to delete a lead altogether.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to edit a lead
Ģ How to delete a lead

Edit a Lead
If you imported some of your leads into the system, there is a chance you'll discover a mistake or two as you go over your leads sections. Or, perhaps a lead contacted you and wanted to update the information they have on file. Whatever the case may be, you can easily edit your leads' details by accessing the lead's profile page.

First, go to the Leads section in the Leads Module and locate the profile you'd like to edit. Click on the lead's name.

This will bring you to that lead's Details page. Here there are several different buttons below the lead's profile picture and name. Click on the "Actions" button.

Select "Edit" to launch the Edit Lead pop-up. Here you can edit the lead's name, email address, phone number, and tags.

When finished, click the blue "Update" button to save any changes. A green system alert will appear in the top right corner of the page confirming that the lead has been updated successfully.

Delete a Lead
In some instances, you may need to delete a lead. Perhaps a customer filled out the same form twice with duplicate information, or maybe a lead even requested to be removed from your system. Whatever the case may be, it is possible to permanently delete a lead by going to the lead's Details page.

First, go to the Leads section in the Leads Module and locate the profile you'd like to edit. Click on the lead's name.

This will bring you to that lead's Details page. Here there are several different buttons below the lead's profile picture and name. Click on the "Actions" button.

Select "Delete". A popup will appear, asking if you are sure you want to delete this lead. Only click "Delete" if you are certain you do not want to retrieve this information ever again.

Once you click delete, a green system alert will appear in the top right corner confirming that the lead has been deleted successfully.



How to use Smart Documents
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-use-smart-documents-2ae1cbd2

How to use Smart Documents
Learn how to use the Smart Documents features in the Leads Module to prepare, send, and sign documents.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are Smart Documents
Ģ How to prepare a smart document

What are Smart Documents?
Smart Documents are documents that you can upload, edit, send, and sign all through the Lead's module. Smart Documents allow you to capture signatures from up to 10 parties, all with an audit trail to help you see when and who signed what. You can use Smart Documents to:
Ģ Send service agreements to potential customers
Ģ Deliver the results of an onsight estimate
Ģ Gather feedback regarding the lead's experience with your business

In addition to signature gathering, Smart Documents allow you to insert fields into the document for a fully customizable document for each party.

How to Use Smart Documents
To use Smart Documents, go to any lead's profile/"Details" page to whom you'd like to send a document and click on the Smart Documents tab.

To begin working with a document, click the blue Upload Docs button, or drag and drop a file into the surrounding section. Once the file is finished uploading, you'll see a preview of the document.

From here there are several actions you can take. If you click the blue Share button, you have three options:

Ģ Share as Link - Share a link to the document via email. You can further customize the email prior to sending out.
Ģ Request Signatures - Add signature fields to any document and send the document out via email to request signatures.
1117.1 After you click Request signatures, a Request Signatures pop-up will appear. You can decide if you'd like to add an extra level of authenticity to your document by enabling the authentication code option, which sends an email with a security code to the signer that they must enter in order to sign the document. Authentification can be enabled or disabled per each individual signer on the document by using the green toggle buttons.
1117.2 If you'd like to add additional signers, scroll down past the existing signers and click on the Add Signer button. From here, select "As a Staff" or "As a Lead" to decide which type of user you are adding. Then, search for the signer and select their name to add them to the list. Once you have finished adding your signers, click the blue Next button.
1117.3 Next, you'll be placing your fields for each signer. Select the signer's name from the Select signer menu at the top of the left side of the page and then drag and drop one of the three possible signer fields into the document.
Ģ Signature - Collects a binding signature from the client.
Ģ Text Field - A blank text field that can be used to fill out names, dates, and other personal details that the signer is required to share.
Ģ Checkbox- Adds a checkable box to any sections requiring such.
 Once finished adding fields for each signer, you are ready to click the blueSend button. A green system alert will appear in the top right corner confirming the document has been sent successfully.
Ģ Download PDF - Download a PDF of the document.

Once you close the document preview window, you'll be able to see all documents you've uploaded, including those that have been sent out for signatures.

If you click on the "[#]/[#] completed" link, you can access the Document Signing pop-up.

This has great features including the ability to send reminders using the Send Reminder button, see an audit trail for signing, and download PDFs of the original PDF, the signed PDF (once available), and the audit trail.



How to sync leads
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-sync-leads

How to sync leads
Learn how to sync internal leads from your BookingKoala account.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

In this article, you will learn how to:
Ģ Sync leads from your BookingKoala account into the leads module

How to Sync Leads
To pull leads from your BookingKoala account, click on the Settings tab near the top right corner of the page and select Imports.

Next, click the blue Sync from BookingKoala button beneath where it says Sync.

From below the New Import tab, select one of the following options:
Ģ All booked customers - Sync customers who presently have a booking with your company.
Ģ Specific customers - Sync specific customers by name.
Ģ Not booked customers - Sync customers who currently do not have any bookings with your company.

Sync Specific Customers

If you are looking to sync specific customers, select the Specific customers option and then use the Select customers field to search and select customers by name, email address, or phone number.

Next, choose which funnel(s) you would like to add the customers.

Finally, click the blue Import button to sync the data.

You will see a green system alert letting you know that the import has begun successfully and to check the system logs in a little while to see when it will be complete.

You can go to the system logs section to check your import status at any time by going to: Leads > Settings > Logs > System Logs

Sync Not Booked or All Booked Customers: One-Time

If you are looking to sync all booked customers or not booked customers, you have two options: run a one-time import or set up a scheduled import that runs automatically at a set recurring rate. In this case, the one-time option is explored.

When running a one-time import, use the customer-created date field to select a date range for the import data.

Next, choose which funnel(s) you would like to add the customers.

Finally, click the blue Import button to sync the data.

As mentioned above, one can check the lead module system logs for the status of any new import. Leads > Settings > Logs > System Logs

Sync Not Booked or All Booked Customers: Scheduled Import

If you are looking to sync all booked customers or not booked customers, you have two options: run a one-time import or set up a scheduled import that runs automatically at a set recurring rate. In this case, the scheduled import option is explored.

To create a recurring scheduled import, select the Scheduled import option and add a name to the import like "Spring One-Time Customers", for example, then select an import start date and import start time. For Repeats, your options are:
Ģ Weekly on Monday
Ģ Every 2 weeks on Saturday
Ģ Monthly on the 15th of the month
Ģ Monthly on the 28th of the month
Ģ Use the Custom Schedule button to set your own repeating time frame.

Next, decide which week you would like to consider for the import (Previous or Next), how many days you want to consider (1-7 days), and if you allow duplicate work progresses in the selected funnel(s) (Yes or No).

Next, select your filters for the import. The options are:
Ģ Status
Ģ Rating
Ģ Frequencies
Ģ Industries
Ģ Locations
Ģ Service Category

Next, choose which funnel(s) you would like to add the customers.

Finally, click the blue Import button to sync the data.

Import History

Once submitted, you can see your recurring scheduled imports under the Scheduled import tab.

Your import history is listed below the Import and Sync options on the main Imports page.

Each import provides the Option to View lead(s) that were imported or Undo import if perhaps you would like to redo a import for any reason.



Set up your leads notifications
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/set-up-your-leads-notifications

Set up your leads notifications
Learn how to set up your email and integrate Twilio to send out SMS notifications from the leads module.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to set up your leads module email notifications
Ģ How to set up your leads module SMS notifications

Leads Module Email Notifications
To set up your Leads Module email notifications, please go to: Leads > Settings > Notifications > Email tab

Change Your Send Out Email Address If you'd like to change the default send-out email address for the Leads Module to something different, you can do so by clicking the "Change" button to the right of the current default send-out address.

A pop-up will appear, giving you the option to use a previously confirmed send-out email address from the "Already saved" list or select the "Add new" option to set up a new email. Once you've selected or entered the email address into the pop-up, click the "Update" button.

A green system alert will appear at the top-right corner of the page, confirming you have updated your sender email address. It will also indicate if your email address is already confirmed on AWS (Amazon Web Service) or if a verification link was emailed to your inbox.

Go to your inbox and find the email from Support@bookingkoala.com. Inside the email, there will be a link that you must click.

Once you've clicked the link, you will be redirected to an AWS page that says "Congratulations!". Once you see this, your email is now verified and you can begin sending out email notifications.

Back in your BookingKoala dashboard, you can also set up a Reply to email address and set your Sender name. Just be sure to click the "Save Changes" button at the bottom of the page once you've made your edits.

Leads Module Master Templates Below the email setup section, you will find two default master templates. These can be edited to apply your branding and other formatting to the emails that come out of the Leads Module.

Click on "Options" to Edit, Delete, or Duplicate a master template, and "Apply to email" to apply it to the email templates listed below.

For more information on how master templates work, click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/change-the-header-image-in-your-email-notification-templates).

Leads Module Email Templates There are three categories under the Email Templates section of the Leads Module: emails to the lead, emails to the admin, and canned responses.

Emails to the lead and the admin can easily be enabled or disabled depending on your preference by clicking the toggle button.

To edit a template, click the pencil icon/"Edit" button under the Action column. Shortcodes can be inserted into email and SMS templates to further customize them.
Ģ Click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/short-codes) to learn more about shortcodes and how to use them.

As always, be sure to click the "Save" button at the bottom of the page if you make any changes.

Leads Module SMS Notifications
To set up your Leads Module SMS notifications, please go to: Leads > Settings > Notifications > SMS tab

There are three fields that must be completed to connect your Twilio account.
1118 Account ID
1119 API key
1120 Phone number

Open your Twilio dashboard and scroll down to the Account Info section.
Ģ If you do not have a Twilio account yet or need help generating your API keys, please click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/set-up-twilio).

1121 Account ID - Use the "copy" icon at the far right end of the box to copy and paste your Twilio account ID (or "SID") into the first box in BookingKoala. Your account ID will always begin with "AC" and then a long string of numbers and letters.
You can also find your account ID by going to Admin > Account Management > API keys and tokens in Twilio.
1122 API key - Copy and paste the Auth Token into the box that says "API Key".
1123 Phone no. - Copy and paste your phone number into the third box.
Ģ Make sure your phone number is entered exactly as it is pictured under "My Twilio phone number". Enter "+" plus your country code followed by the rest of the phone number.
? For example, "+15672299756" is correct.
? "15672299756" is incorrect.
? "5672299756" is incorrect.
? "+1(567)2299756" is incorrect.
? "+1-567-229-9756" is incorrect.
You can also find your phone number by going to Phone Numbers > Manage > Active Numbers in the left side menu in your Twilio dashboard.

Once you have entered each piece of information into the boxes in BookingKoala, click the "Save changes" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, confirming your Twilio account has been connected successfully. The system is now ready to send out any SMS templates you have enabled.

Leads Module SMS Templates Just like email templates, SMS templates can be toggled to enabled or disabled depending on your preference.

SMS templates can be edited using the pencil icon/"Edit" button under the Action column. There are also SMS shortcodes that can be used to further customize your lead and admin templates.



What are hot leads?
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/what-are-hot-leads

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are hot leads
Ģ How to track them in BookingKoala

What are hot leads?
Hot leads are customers who never completed the booking form and left before finishing. (Premium feature). Sometimes, potential visitors leave your website without finishing the booking, but if they leave some information that includes a phone number and/or email, we can capture that information. Later you can reach out to them and see why they didn't complete the booking.

How are hot leads collected?
A hot lead is someone who fills out your booking form but "abandons their cart" before they complete the booking. These abandoned cart customers are some of the hottest leads you can have because they are interested in your services and they have already partially filled out the booking form, giving you a better idea of what they are looking for.

A few minutes after leaving the booking page, hot leads are automatically sorted into a pre-built Abandoned Cart funnel inside your Leads Module. Here you can follow up with the lead and try to entice them to book a service.

These leads are also tracked when adding a booking as admin/staff through the 'Add Booking' button. Whenever taking bookings over the phone, leads will automatically end up inside the leads module so you can work on them later.

Whether the booking was completed and saved by admin/staff or the person left without finishing the booking, the information will be saved inside the leads module. You can later go inside the leads module and continue where you left off.

Tips for Converting Hot Leads Here are some of our best tips on converting hot leads into customers:

Tip #1: Call AS FAST AS POSSIBLE!
Ģ Studies indicate that contacting a lead within 5 minutes can result in a 21 times higher conversion rate compared to waiting 30 minutes.
Ģ 50% of leads tend to choose the first company that reaches out to them.

Tip #2: Follow up with your leads.
Ģ Around 80% of sales are made after five or more follow-up attempts.
Ģ 60% of customers may say "no" up to four times before accepting a sale.

Tip #3: Be helpful and do not oversell your company.

How It Works
HereÆs how it works:
Ģ When a user's subscription plan expires, access to hot leads tracked from system forms is restricted.
Ģ Instead of providing full access to these leads, we notify the user via email.
Ģ If you'd like to stop such notifications, you can snooze them by clicking the 'Snooze notification' towards the bottom of that email.
Ģ Upon visiting the Leads module Leads section, users will see blurred lead items. This indicates that leads have been tracked, but their details are not accessible. These blurred leads are referred to as "hot leads."
Ģ To unlock access to all the leads, including the hot leads, users need to upgrade their subscription plan to the Premium subscription.

You can easily upgrade your plan by clicking on the blue Upgrade Now buttons located throughout the lead details sections.



How to add leads from listing pages
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-add-leads-from-listing-pages

How to add leads from listing pages
Learn how to manually add leads from your listing pages in BookingKoala.

Last updated on 26 Mar, 2025

In this article, you will learn how to:
Ģ Manually add leads from your listing pages

Adding Leads from the Listing Pages
The new Leads Module allows for the addition of leads from the listing or "list view" pages in BookingKoala.

There are several places you can add a lead to your funnels. This includes:
Ģ Today's Bookings
Ģ Upcoming Bookings
Ģ Unassigned Bookings
Ģ Job History
Ģ Cancellations

In addition to that, you can add a lead to a funnel from the Edit Booking page.

To begin, click to edit a specific booking, select "Bookings" from the left-side menu and then select one of the listing pages.

If your default view is calendar view, you can switch to list view by clicking the List View button at the top of the page.

Once you are in list view, look under the Actions column on the right side of the page and locate the Add to Leads Funnel icon. Once you click the icon, a "Choose Funnel(s)" pop-up will appear.

If the lead has already been added to one or more funnels, the names of those funnels will be displayed at the top of the pop-up.

Click on the Select Funnels dropdown to add the lead to one or more funnels by checking the box next to the funnel name.

Once you've selected the funnel(s), there are two more questions for you to answer:

Ģ Do you want to sync revenue?
? You can copy over booking revenue from here or add your own later. When syncing the revenue over to the leads module, the system will use the revenue that is attached to this booking and add it to the work progress inside the leads module.
Ģ Do you want to sync extra revenue?
? Syncing extra revenue will add any cancellation or rescheduling fees, additional tips, or extra charges that belong to this booking. That extra revenue will show up under the work progress section for the lead.

Once you've made your selections, click the "Submit" button. The lead will be added to the selected funnels.



Best ways to use leads
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/best-ways-to-use-leads

Best ways to use leads
Learn how the automatic funnels work in the leads module and how to set up other useful funnels.

Last updated on 28 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How automatic funnels work in the leads module
Ģ How to set up other helpful funnels

Getting Started
Here are the best ways to use the leads module when collecting leads. These are examples of what you can do with them to make more money and run a better service.

Keep in mind that these are just some of the examples we know of. If you have any other examples youÆd like to share with us, we can add them to our article.

To begin, open the Leads Module by clicking on "Leads" from the left side menu.

To view your current funnels and add new ones, click the "Funnels" button at the top of the page.

To learn how to add a new funnel, click here.

To pull leads from your BookingKoala account into a funnel, click on the Settings tab near the top right corner of the page and select Imports.

Next, click the blue Sync from BookingKoala button beneath where it says Sync.

To learn how to sync leads to your funnels or edit the existing funnel criteria, click here.

Preset Funnels
Six funnels have already been set up within your leads module. They are:
Ģ Abandoned Cart (HOT Leads)
Ģ Canceled Bookings
Ģ New Reviews and Feedback
Ģ One-Time to Recurring
Ģ Negative Reviews
Ģ Lead Form

Abandoned Cart (HOT Leads) Funnel The Abandoned Cart (HOT Leads) funnel is set up to collect all leads that come through the booking form on the customer end and admin end. Once they are in the funnel, see if they book, mark them, or have them automatically marked as "Won". Then work with the ones that have not finished a booking. So, if you are doing a booking as an admin and it's not finished, it will automatically end up here. You can call the lead a couple of times to see if they want to complete the booking.

New Reviews and Feedback Funnel Next, we have the New Reviews and Feedback funnel. Automatically, the system is going to be checking the bookings that occurred yesterday and it will add them in according to the import leads criteria. You can follow up with leads in that funnel and try to get reviews from them. To learn a little more about how that works, we can go to the recurring sync for this funnel.

This funnel is based on a scheduled import that comes and checks the previous day every day at 4 AM and pulls bookings according to the booking status. In this case, bookings must be in the job history and any customers who have completed up to 2 bookings total in their job history.

So if this is their first or second booking ever, theyÆll be added to the funnel. however, if this is their third booking, they will not be imported as we can assume they already left a review or are not interested, and we want to cut out time. There are several different ways of setting this up, but this is the way we felt would be most successful.

If someone does end up in here, they are likely a new customer with one or two bookings, itÆs unlikely theyÆve left a review. So you can start calling them if you check the customer and do not see any reviews left thus far by clicking the View Customer button under the leadÆs profile.

One-Time to Recurring Funnel For the One-Time to Recurring funnel, the system checks for any one-time appointments from yesterday and imports them into this funnel. This is achieved by a recurring sync of all one-time bookings that occurred the day before.

If you run a recurring type of business like home cleaning, this is beneficial because you can call the one-time clients and try to convince them to become a recurring client.

Canceled Bookings Funnel For the Canceled Bookings funnel, can see the criteria for this under the imports section. The filter is for any canceled bookings from yesterday will end up in this funnel.

This will be for either one-time or recurring cancelations.

Negative Reviews Funnel All negative internal reviews (ratings that are 3 stars or lower) will go inside this funnel.

You can contact customers who had a bad experience and try to fix the situation.

Lead Form Funnel We created a default Lead Form funnel for you. All leads from the default form will appear here so you can work on them conveniently.

To view and edit your default lead form, click on Forms from the top menu, then select Options under the Actions column and select Edit.

Ģ For more information on how to build a leads form, please click here.

Other Funnel Ideas
Customers Who HavenÆt Booked Since Funnel You can into the import sections or set up a quarterly import and set up a filter so customers who havenÆt booked since a certain date range will be pulled into the funnel.

Declined Payments Funnel You can check this every day as well. Any declined payments go into this funnel. You can call the customers to try and collect payment.

Quotes Funnel If you have any quotes that have been sent out, you can make a quote funnel and then follow up with those.



How to add a leads form to your website
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-add-a-leads-form-to-your-website

How to add a leads form to your website
Learn how to embed a leads form onto your website.

Last updated on 07 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to embed your lead form(s) on your website

Getting Started
To locate your lead form, click on Leads from the left side menu to open the Leads Module.

Next, click on "Forms" from the top menu.

This is where all your lead forms are stored and new forms can be created.
Ģ To learn how to build a new lead form, click here.

A default lead form has been generated for you and is connected to the "Lead Form" funnel under the funnels section.

From here you can further modify the form and/or funnel to your liking.
Ģ To learn how to build or edit a funnel, click here.

Embedding Your Form(s)
Once you've gotten your lead form(s) to your liking, it is time to put them to use. To add a lead form to your website, you will copy an embed code and paste it into a custom CSS section in your website builder.

To get the embed code, go to the Forms section, select Options from under the Actions column, and then select Embed Code.

A pop-up window will appear with the embed code in it. Click the Copy Code button at the bottom of the window to copy the entire code.

Adding a Lead Form to a Third-Party Website

Once your embed code has been copied, navigate to your third-party website builder and follow the instructions in the links below to embed the form. Here are instructions for some of the most common website builders our clients use:
Ģ WordPress
Ģ Wix
Ģ Squarespace
Ģ GoDaddy
Ģ Weebly
Ģ Shopify

If you do not see your website builder listed here, please email us at support@bookingkoala.com and let us know so we can update our article and provide assistance with embedding your forms. If you permit us, we are also happy to embed your forms on your behalf. We just need access to your website builder and must know where you want each form embedded.

Adding a Lead Form to BookingKoala

If you are using the BookingKoala website builder for your website, there are a few different ways you can add a lead form to your site. All options take place inside the BookingKoala website and theme builder.

To begin, open your admin dashboard and go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on "Customize Theme" to open the builder.

Next, navigate to the "Get Quote" page, created to display your primary lead form.

Scroll down the page and click in the space below until you locate a long rectangle shape. Click to reveal the Edit button in the top left corner, then click Edit to select which lead form you would like to use.

After making a selection, that form will be imported into the space.

You can also add your lead form to any other page by adding a new section and then selecting "Lead" from the left-side menu. All of the forms you've created will be displayed. Click on a form to add it to the section.

You can also utilize the "Custom" option from the left-side menu which allows you to paste the embed code for the lead form into a field for custom CSS.

Once you've finished making any changes, just be sure to click the Save & Publish button in the top right corner of the page.



Setting up Google ad reports in the leads module
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-google-ad-reports-in-the-leads-module

Setting up Google ad reports in the leads module
Learn how to integrate Google ads with your leads module to generate insightful reports and enhance your marketing campaigns with comprehensive analytics.

Last updated on 26 Mar, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ Integrating Google ads with your leads module
Ģ Accessing and analyzing Google ad reports effortlessly
Ģ Improve your marketing strategies with detailed insights

Overview
Integrating Google ads with your leads module enables powerful tracking and reporting capabilities. You can monitor lead performance, optimize campaigns, and make data-driven decisions effortlessly by linking your Google ad account.

Prerequisites

Before proceeding with the integration, ensure you have:
1124 A Google account.
1125 Access to Google Ad Manager to manage your reports and data

How to Integrate Google Reports
Step 1: Access the Leads Module 2. From the sidebar menu, go to the Leads .

Step 2: Navigate to Integrations
1126 Once the Leads module opens, locate the Settings option in the header navigation.
1127 Hover over the Settings menu and search for Integrations .
1128 Click on Integrations , and the integration settings page will open.

Step 3: Connect Google Account
1129 Click on the Login with Google button.
1130 A small pop-up window will appear.
1131 Enter your Google email and password.
1132 After filling in the credentials, another pop-up window will appear, asking permission to continue.
1133 Click Continue to grant access.

Step 4: Confirm Integration
1134 Once the integration is successful, you will be redirected to the integration settings page.
1135 Now, please select the AdWords MCC account ID and the AdWords client account ID , then save.
1136 You can now access Google reports by navigating to Reports and then go to Google Ad.
1137 The Google section in the integration page will be updated to reflect the successful connection.

Managing the Google Integration
Deactivate Integration : You can disable Google integration at any time by clicking the Deactivate button on the Integration Settings page .

By following these steps, you can efficiently set up Google Ad Reports in your leads module and make the most of your marketing analytics.



Setting up Facebook Lead Tracking and Ad Reports in the Leads Module
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-facebook-ad-reports-in-the-leads-module

Setting up Facebook Lead Tracking and Ad Reports in the Leads Module
Learn how to integrate Facebook with your Leads Module to track leads and generate insightful reports. With this integration, youÆll never miss an opportunity and can enhance your marketing campaigns with comprehensive analytics.

Last updated on 17 Oct, 2025

This guide will help you:
Ģ Connect Facebook with your Leads Module
Ģ Track leads directly from Facebook Lead Ad forms
Ģ Access and analyze Facebook ad reports with ease
Ģ Improve your marketing strategies through detailed insights

Overview
Integrating Facebook Ads with your leads module unlocks advanced lead tracking and reporting features. By connecting your Facebook ad account, you can easily track lead performance, optimize your campaigns, and make informed, data-driven decisions. With this connection, Booking Koala enables you to:
Ģ Capture leads instantly in your Leads Module
Ģ View campaign performance and key ad metrics
Ģ Make informed marketing decisions without switching tools

Prerequisites Before proceeding with the integration, ensure you have:
1138 A Facebook account.
1139 Admin access to the Facebook Page(s) you want to track leads from
1140 Access to Facebook Ad Manager to manage your reports and data. The admin must have at least one active ad account connected to the business profile.

How to Integrate Facebook Lead tracking and Ad Reports
Step 1: Access the Leads Module 2. From the sidebar menu, go to the Leads module.

Step 2: Navigate to Integrations
1141 Once the Leads module opens, locate the Settings option in the header navigation.
1142 Hover over the Settings menu and search for Integrations.
1143 Click on Integrations, and the integration settings page will open.

Step 3: Connect Facebook Account
1144 Click on the Login with Facebook button.
1145 If you are not already logged into Facebook, a popup will appear asking you to log in.
1146 After successfully logging in, you will be redirected to the following popup window. This popup will need your confirmation like your name.
1147 The next popup window will prompt you to "Choose the pages you want BookingKoala Leads to access."
1148 Select the businesses you want Booking Koala to access for lead tracking and ad insights
1149 The next popup window will request your access permissions as outlined below.
1150 A final confirmation popup will confirm that [Your Account Name] has been connected to BookingKoala Leads.

Navigate to the Leads Integrationsection in the leads module. You will see that the field is now enabled to get started.
Select theAd Accountfor which you want to see Facebook reports in the reports section.
Lead tracking has been automatically enabled for the Facebook pages selected during login. You can enable/disable it any time you want.
You have now successfully integrated Facebook with BookingKoala Leads.

How things work
Ģ The Leads Module starts receiving leads from Facebook Lead Ads instantly, which appear in the Leads Listing page.
Ģ Leads will only be captured from the Facebook Pages you granted access to during login.
Ģ You must be an admin of the selected Facebook Pages to track leads.
Ģ To view reports, select the Ad Account in the integration settings, then go to the Reports page and switch to the Facebook tab.

Managing the Facebook Integration
Ģ Reports ¢ You can change the connected Facebook Ad Account in the integration settings anytime.
Ģ Leads Tracking ¢ You can enable or disable lead tracking from the integration settings anytime.
Ģ Page Access: To update which Pages are connected, deactivate the integration and log in again.

Troubleshooting (Fallback mechanisms)
Ģ If leads are not being tracked, confirm that your integration is active and lead tracking is enabled.
Ģ Please note that, only admins of the connected Facebook Pages can track leads.
Ģ If you see dummy data in reports, ensure youÆve selected an Ad Account in the integration settings.
Ģ If issues persist, try Deactivate and re-logging into Facebook.

Deactivating the Integration
You can disable this Facebook integration at any time by clicking the Deactivate button on the integration settings page. This revokes permissions and stops Lead capture and reporting.

By following these steps, you can efficiently set up Facebook lead tracking and Ad reports in your Leads module and make the most of your marketing analytics.



What are abandoned form leads?
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/what-are-abandoned-form-leads

What are abandoned form leads?
Learn more about abandoned form leads in the leads module.

Last updated on 30 Apr, 2025

In this article, you will learn more about:
Ģ How abandoned form leads work
Ģ Where to locate them in the Leads Module

Abandoned Form Leads
Abandoned form leads are customers who never completed the lead form and left before finishing. (Premium feature). Sometimes, potential visitors leave your website without finishing, but if they leave some information that includes a phone number and/or email, we can capture that information.

These premium leads have an "Abandoned Form" tag associated with them.

How are abandoned form leads collected?
An abandoned form lead is someone who fills out your lead form but "abandons the form" before they complete the form. These are some of the hottest leads you can have because they are interested in your services and they may have already partially filled out the lead form, giving you a better idea of what they are looking for. Even thought the prospect did not complete the form, we capture whatever information that they entered before leaving the form.

A few moments after leaving the lead form page, abandoned form leads are automatically sorted into your funnel(s) inside your Leads Module. Here, you can follow up with the lead and try to entice them to book a service, schedule an interview, or something else.

How do I view an abandoned form leads?
You can view new abandoned form leads from the Leads section in your Leads Module dashboard.

Click on the lead's name to view that lead's detail page. Here, you can click the eye icon under the Work Progress section to view the form that the lead abandoned.



Setting up Zapier in the leads module
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/setting-up-zapier-in-the-leads-module

Setting up Zapier in the leads module
Learn how to integrate Zapier with your Leads module to automate lead creation and enhance your workflow efficiency with seamless data transfer.

Last updated on 18 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:

Ģ Integrate Zapier with your Leads module
Ģ Automate lead creation using Zapier actions
Ģ Streamline your lead management process with minimal manual effort

Overview
Integrating Zapier with your Leads module enables automated lead creation from various apps and services. Setting up a Zap lets you connect your preferred tools to automatically send lead data to your system, reducing manual work and improving response times.

Prerequisites

Before proceeding with the integration, ensure you have:

Ģ A Zapier account
Ģ A BookingKoala account with admin access.

How to Integrate Zapier with Leads Module
Create a Zap for Lead Creation

1151 Click Make a Zap in Zapier.
1152 Choose a trigger app (e.g., Facebook Leads, Google Forms, etc.).
1153 Select the trigger event (e.g., ōNew Leadö).
1154 Click Continue and authenticate your trigger app.
1155 Search for BookingKoala as the action app.
1156 Choose Create Lead as the action event.
1157 Connect your BookingKoala account to Zapier.
1157.1 To connect your Zapier account to BookingKoala, go to: Settings > General > Apps & Integrations
1157.2 Scroll down to the Zapier section and click the" Click Here " button.
1157.3 Next, click on the red " Disabled " button to switch it to " Enabled ". You will see a green system notification in the top right corner letting you know that the Zapier app has been enabled successfully.
1157.4 Next, click the blue " Generate API Key " button. This will create a unique key for you to connect your BookingKoala account with Zapier.
1157.5 Once the API key has been generated, use the blue Copy button to copy the code.
1157.5.1 Enter the API key you copied from BookingKoala into the first box.
1157.5.2 Enter your account's subdomain into the second box.
1158 Map the required lead fields from the trigger app to BookingKoala.
1159 Click Test & Continue to ensure the integration works correctly.
1160 Click Publish Zap to activate the automation.

Managing Your Zapier Integration

Ģ View Active Zaps : Manage and monitor your active Zaps from your Zapier dashboard.
Ģ Deactivate Zaps : To pause or stop a Zap, toggle it off or delete it within Zapier.

Details Synced from Zapier
The following tables contain each detail that is synced from Zapier. The column on the right shows the detail's name and the column on the left shows an example.

Create Lead

By following these steps, you can seamlessly integrate Zapier with BookingKoala to automate lead creation, enhancing your operational efficiency and ensuring prompt engagement with new prospects.



14. Checklists
Articles in this collection (13):

1161 Checklist module overview
1162 Add a new checklist
1163 Checklist settings
1164 Checklist dependencies
1165 Checklist conditions
1166 Checklist & job media tags
1167 Translating checklists
1168 Admin checklist dashboard
1169 Booking form checklist tools
1170 Checklist progress dashboard
1171 Staff checklist permissions
1172 Customer checklist access
1173 Export completed checklist(s)



Checklist module overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/checklist-module-overview

Checklist module overview
Learn which features are included in the Bookingkoala Checklist Module, where to set them up, and how to use them for admin, providers, customers, and staff.

Last updated on 17 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ The new Checklist Module features
Ģ Which features are included in each subscription plan
Ģ How to start utilizing the Checklist Module

What is the Checklist Module?
The Checklist Module contains tools to help you create and manage custom checklists for providers, staff, and admin to complete while providing a service. Checklists work just like "to-do lists", breaking down job responsibilities into tasks and subtasks. "Tasks" are categories or aspects of the job, while "subtasks" are the specific steps or actions taken to complete the primary task.

For example, a cleaning checklist's tasks may be the type of room or area being cleaned.
Ģ Kitchen
Ģ Bedroom(s)
Ģ Bathroom(s)
Ģ Common Area(s)
Ģ Outdoor Space(s)

The company can then include more specific tasks and services under the "Kitchen" task in the form of subtasks.
Ģ Wash dishes
Ģ Log loads of dishes washed
Ģ Clean backsplash and sink
Ģ Wipe countertops
Ģ Clean stovetop and stove fan
Ģ Clean inside oven
Ģ Clean fridge top and exterior
Ģ Clean inside fridge
Ģ Clean inside freezer (if thawed)
Ģ Sweep and mop floors

The provider(s)/team assigned to a booking with a checklist can view it in the "Checklist" tab next to the "Booking Details" page/tab in the provider's dashboard or the BookingKoala for Providers app.

Providers, admin, and staff can check off tasks as completed or use the "Does Not Apply" button if a task is not included in the service. Providers can upload job media to checklists and send notes to the admin and staff.

Customers with permission can also view the "Checklist Progress" page and send notes to the admin/staff.

Admin and staff with permission can access the checklist to send notes to the provider or customer, check checklist progress, complete tasks, and use a variety of other tools to assist the providers with completing the service.

Other Checklist Module features include:
Ģ Set up different checklists for multiple industries, forms, and job types.
Ģ Require providers to complete the job with mandatory checklists.
Ģ Share checklists with your customers and document job completion.
Ģ See which provider completed each task.
Ģ Enable automated customer and admin checklist notifications.
Ģ Use a custom checklist for some or all appointments in a series.
Ģ Allow customers, providers, and teams to add checklist notes and send messages.
Ģ Set default notes for customers and providers.
Ģ Translate your checklists to other languages.

Why Use Checklists?
Checklists help manage customers' expectations of the service. Standardized checklists also promote consistency, and reduce common errors and misunderstandings. There are settings to require providers to complete all of the mandatory tasks on the checklist before they can clock out.

Checklists also help providers, staff, and admin stay organized and focused on necessary tasks. You can use the checklist module to improve accountability by seeing which providers completed each task and referring to checklist media or notes if anything was missed or not up to standard.

Which Checklist Module features are included in my plan?
All Premium Plan subscribers have unlimited access to all of the Checklist Module features.

Starter and Growing Plan subscribers can try out the Checklist Module during their initial 14-day free trial but must upgrade to the Premium plan if they would like to continue using the features.

Ģ After the trial has expired, Starter and Growing plan subscribers will no longer be able to access the following sub-modules:
? The "Checklist Progress" section under Bookings > Checklist Progress.
? The "Checklist Notes" feature.
Ģ Notes sent during the initial trial will be retained, but no new notes can be sent unless you subscribe to the Premium plan.
? The "multiple dependencies" option for checklists.
Ģ For the Starter and Growing plans, checklists are limited to one per service category.
? The "Export completed checklists" option.

How do I get started?
The BookingKoala Help Center has multiple articles to help you learn more about setting up and using the Checklist Module feature. Click on the name of each section below to see a complete guide with instructions, pictures, and videos.

Checklist Set Up and Customization
Ģ Add a New Checklist - Learn how to create a new checklist by adding tasks, subtasks, and other elements from the Checklist Builder.
Ģ Checklist Settings - Learn how to enable and disable settings that control customer and provider checklist access, checklist notes, automated checklist notifications, and more.
Ģ Checklist Dependencies - Learn how to set up checklists for different job types or combinations of services.
Ģ Checklist Conditions - Learn how to set up conditional logic to show or hide tasks based on the state of other tasks in the checklist.
Ģ Checklist Tags - Learn about checklist tags, including how to add new tags and manage tag settings for each checklist.
Ģ Translating Checklists - Learn how to translate checklists into a different language or multiple languages.
Ģ Export Checklists - Learn how to export completed checklists for specific dates.

Checklist Access and Using Checklist Features
Ģ Admin Checklist Dashboard - Learn how to use the admin checklist dashboard to add, filter, edit, duplicate, archive, publish, and delete checklists.
Ģ Booking Form Checklist Tools - Learn how to use the various booking form checklist tools for admin and staff.
Ģ Checklist Progress Dashboard - Learn how to view live checklist updates, send notes, and send messages to the customer or provider(s) from the checklist progress dashboard.
Ģ Staff Checklist Permissions - Learn how to enable permissions for staff members to access different features in the admin checklist dashboard, including how to view live checklists, send checklist notes, and complete checklist tasks as a staff member.
Ģ Provider Checklist Access - Learn how checklists work for providers, including how to view booking checklist(s), send checklist notes, and complete checklist tasks as a provider.
Ģ Customer Checklist Access - Learn how checklists work for customers, including how to view booking checklist(s) and send checklist notes to the provider(s), staff, and admin.



Add a new checklist
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-a-new-checklist

Add a new checklist
Learn how to create a new checklist by adding tasks, subtasks, and other elements from the Checklist Builder.

Last updated on 10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Create a new checklist
Ģ Add tasks and subtasks to the checklist
Ģ Set up each type of checklist element

What are checklists?
In Bookingkoala, "Checklists" are interactive lists of duties associated with particular services or bookings. Providers, staff, and admin can use checklists to add media, log details, send notes, and complete tasks. 

If customers are permitted to see checklists, they can also send checklist notes to the admin and view the "Checklist Progress" page for the booking.

Admin and staff (with permission) can utilize the "Checklist Builder" in the admin checklist dashboard to build and manage checklists for different services, industries, and customers.

The "Checklist Builder" is used to create new checklists by adding one or more tasks and subtasks to the list. "Tasks" are used to describe broader categories or aspects of the service, while "subtasks" are used to describe specific steps or duties that must be addressed to complete the main task.  

How to Build a Checklist
You can create and manage all of your business's checklists inside the Checklist Module from the left-side menu in the admin dashboard under: 
Settings > General > Checklist

Add a New Checklist
To create a new checklist, click on the blue "Add New Checklist" button near the top-right corner of the page.

Use the "+ Blank Template" button to begin with an empty checklist, or select a default checklist template and then click "Next" to customize it.  

Enter a name for the checklist in the "Enter Name" field and click the "Save" button to create the new list, or click "Back to templates" if you'd prefer to select a default template instead.  

Once the checklist name has been saved, you will be redirected to the checklist builder. 

Checklist Tasks and Subtasks
Once a new checklist has been generated, the next step is to add "tasks" for the service. Each task represents a different section or category of the services being offered in the checklist. Tasks can be expanded upon by adding "subtasks".

For example, a cleaning company may have a checklist with the following tasks:
Ģ Kitchen
Ģ Bedroom
Ģ Bathroom
Ģ Common Areas
Ģ Outdoor Spaces

The company can then include more specific areas and services under the "Kitchen Services" task in the form of subtasks. For example:
Ģ Wash dishes
Ģ Clean backsplash and sink
Ģ Wipe countertops
Ģ Clean stovetop and stove fan
Ģ Clean inside oven
Ģ Clean fridge top and exterior
Ģ Clean inside fridge
Ģ Clean inside freezer (if thawed)
Ģ Sweep and mop floors

Add a New Task To add a new task to the checklist, click the blue "Add Task" button on the bottom of the left-side menu.

Enter the name of the task into the topmost field in the "Add task" pop-up window.

Check the box next to "Enable task submission" to allow providers and teams to complete all subtasks in this task by completing the main task.  When this option is not enabled, providers will first need to complete the individual subtasks before the main task can be completed.  

Click "Cancel" to return to the Checklist Builder without adding a new task or "Save" to add the task to this checklist.  

Change the Task Order If the checklist has more than one task, you can change the task order by holding the "drag to reorder" icon to the left of the task's name and dragging it up or down the list.  

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the task priority has been updated. 

Edit or Delete a Task To edit an existing task, click the pencil icon to the right of the task name to open the "Update Task" pop-up.  

Once you are finished, click the blue "Update" button to save any changes. A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the task has been updated successfully. 

If you would like to permanently delete a task, click the trash icon to the right of the task name and select "Delete" in the following pop-up window.

Deleting a task will also delete any subtasks and checklist elements added under that task, so please be sure you are ready to proceed before clicking "Delete".

Add a New Subtask Once one or more tasks have been added to a checklist, you will be able to add subtasks.  Subtasks are created by adding fields from the "Checklist Elements" menu on the right side of the Checklist Builder.  

There are two types of checklist elements: "content fields" and "form fields". 

"Content fields" are non-interactive fields used to add instructions, explanations, and other formatting to the checklist.   There are five different kinds of content fields:
Ģ Header - Insert a header and optional subheader
Ģ Label - Insert a "label" style line of text
Ģ Paragraph - Insert a "paragraph" style box of text
Ģ Divider - Insert a divider line
Ģ Image - Insert an image

Form fields are interactive fields used to provide different ways of documenting and marking tasks as complete. There are ten different kinds of form fields:
Ģ Text Input - Insert a small box for text input
Ģ Number - Insert a box for number input
Ģ Multi-Line Input - Insert a large, multi-line box for text input
Ģ Dropdown - Insert a drop-down menu with one or more options
Ģ Radio Button - Insert radio buttons (single selection of one or more options)
Ģ Checkbox -Insert checkbox(es)  (select one or more options from multiple options)
Ģ Rating - Insert a "star-based" rating element
Ģ Signature - Insert a signature collection box
Ģ Range - Insert a "range bar" graphic
Ģ Plus/Minus - Insert a "plus/minus" box with buttons to increase or decrease the value.

To add new fields to the form, click and drag them from the Checklist Elements menu on the right.

Whenever a new element is added, the content editor menu will open on the right side of the screen. This is where you can change the text and customize the content for each element.  

For more detailed instructions on how to set up each checklist element and build your subtasks, please refer to the upcoming section, "Customizing Checklist Elements". 

Change the Subtask Order If your task has more than one subtask, you can change the subtask order by hovering over the checklist element to view the action buttons.

Hold the "Drag to Reorder" icon and drag the element up or down the page to place it in a new position.

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the subtask priority has been updated. 

Customize, Duplicate, or Delete Subtasks Click on the second action button, "Customize", to open the content editor and make changes to the element.  Specific instructions on how to customize each type of element are detailed in the following section of this article.  

The third action button, Duplicate, allows you to make a copy of the element you have selected.  A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you would like to duplicate the element.  Click the blue "Duplicate" button to proceed.  

To delete an element, click the fourth action button, "Delete".  A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you would like to delete the element.  Click the blue "Delete" button to proceed.  

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the element has been deleted. 

Customizing Checklist Elements
Most checklist elements have similar settings and options to customize each subtask.  However, some elements also have special settings that are unique to that element. The first section, "General Checklist Element Settings and Options", goes over more common settings found in checklist elements.  The second section, "Specific Checklist Element Settings and Options", goes over specific elements including how more unique settings work.  

General Checklist Element Settings and Options

Label Whenever there is the option to enter text, the element menu will display a text editor box under where it says "Label".  The label section can be used to ask a question or provide instructions, or it can be left empty if the text is not needed.

Optionally, you can also add a "Sub label" to most elements. This text will be displayed below the field.  

Tooltip Most elements include a "Tooltip" option. When enabled, the tooltip displays a custom message that appears when the cursor is placed over the tooltip info icon.

Placeholder For any elements with a text input field, you can use the "Placeholder" option to provide an example or hint of what information you are looking for.  

Validation Text and multi-line input elements also contain "Validation" options that restrict the type of information that can be entered into the field. 
Ģ None: No validation is required.
Ģ Alphabetic: Only letters of the alphabet can be entered into the field.
Ģ Numeric: Only numbers can be entered into the field.
Ģ Alphanumeric: Both letters and numbers can be entered into the field.  
Ģ Email: Only a valid email address can be entered into the field.

Default Many elements will have a "Default" option to designate specific value(s) or add pre-filled content to a field. This value can be modified by the person completing the checklist.
Ģ Text-input elements allow you to add default text to the input box.
Ģ The dropdown menu and radio button elements allow for one option to be selected as the default.
Ģ The checklist element allows for one or more option(s) to be set as the default.

Options To set up multiple options for the checkbox, radio button, or dropdown sections, click the blue "Add Option" button beneath the "Options" section.

Horizontal Elements that allow for more than one option will also have a "Horizontal" option.  When enabled, the horizontal option shortens an element's list of options by breaking them into two or more columns.   The number of columns must be one less than the total number of options.  

Required If you would like to make a field mandatory, use the "Required" option and toggle it to Enabled. You can also enter a "Required error message" to display if users do not respond to mandatory fields.  

Enable Charlimit For elements that permit text input, the "Enable Charlimit" (character limit) option limits how many characters the user can enter into the field. 
Ģ Number-based elements allow you to set a minimum and maximum character limit.
Ģ Text-based elements only contain the option for setting a maximum character limit.

Read Only Interactive elements have a "Read-only" option that prevents users from editing the field.  

Visible To The "Visible To" option allows you to specify if a field is visible to the customer, the provider, or neither.  If a field is hidden from the customer and the provider, only the admin and staff will be able to see this element on the checklist.

Impact Progress BarForm elements have an "Impact Progress Bar" option that controls if the completion of the task/subtask will impact the checklist progress bar.
When this option is enabled, the checklist progress bar will increase when the task/subtask is completed.
If this option is disabled, the checklist progress bar will not change if/when the task/subtask is completed.

Unique NameThe "Unique name" field is used to label elements to set up conditional logic. The unique name is not visible on the checklist itself.
Conditional logic can be set up in the "Conditions" section on the Checklist Builder "Settings" page.
Click here to learn more about setting up checklist conditions.

Specific Checklist Element Settings and Options

Content Fields: HeaderThe "Header" element can be used to add a header (and optional sub-header) to the checklist. 
To change the style of the header text, highlight the text with your cursor and then select one of the format buttons from the text box menu.
The "Header" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Visible To" and "Unique Name".

Content Fields: LabelThe "Label" element can be used to add a shorter line of text to the checklist.
The "Label" element has the following options available to enable or customize: "Tool Tip", "Visible To", and "Unique Name".

Content Fields: ParagraphThe "Paragraph" element can be used to add a longer, paragraph-style section of text to the checklist.
To change the style of the paragraph text, highlight the text with your cursor and then select one of the format buttons from the text box menu.
The "Paragraph" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Visible To" and "Unique Name".

Content Fields: Divider The "Divider" element can be used to add a stylized line between other checklist elements.
Ģ The Color section changes the divider's color.
Ģ The Style section changes the style of the line.
Ģ The Height section adjusts the thickness of the divider.
Ģ The Margin Top section edits the amount of space between the divider and the content above it
Ģ The Margin Button section edits the amount of space between the divider and the content below it
The "Divider" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Visible To" and "Unique Name".

Content Fields: Image The "Image" element can be used to add an image to the checklist.
Ģ Use the "Alt text" section to add alternative text to an image. Alt text is used by screen reader technology for the visually impaired and is also indexed by search engines. In addition, alt text will be displayed on the page if the image does not load.
Ģ Use the "Link" section to add a hyperlink to the image. 
Ģ Use the "Align" option to align the image to the left, right, or center of the page.
Ģ Use the "Image size" slider to adjust the size o the image.
Ģ Rounded: This option allows you to round the edges of the image.
The "Image" element has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Tooltip", "Visible To", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: Text InputThe "Text Input" element can be used to add a shorter text-input field to the checklist.
The "Text Input" element has the following options available to enable or customize:  "Label", "Sub Label", "Placeholder", "Default", "Tooltip", "Validation", "Required", "Enable char limit", "Visible To", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: NumberThe "Number" element can be used to add a number-input field to the checklist.
The "Number" element has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Placeholder", "Default", "Tooltip", "Required", "Enable char limit", "Read Only", "Visible To", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: Multi-Line Input The "Multi-line Input" element can be used to add a large, paragraph-style box for text input.
Ģ The "Height" option can be used to set the height of the text box in pixels.
Ģ The "Editor Type" option can be used to change the text box type from "plain text" (text cannot be formatted) or "editor" (style and other formatting tools are available to the person completing the checklist).
The "Multi-Line Input" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Placeholder", "Default", "Tooltip", "Validation", "Required", "Enable char limit", "Read Only", "Visible To", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: DropdownThe "Dropdown" element can be used to add a drop-down style menu with one or more options to select from.
The "Dropdown" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Default", "Tooltip", "Options", "Required",  "Read Only", "Visible To", "Impact Progress Bar", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: Radio ButtonThe "Radio Button" element can be used to add a multiple-choice section that allows for only one option to be selected.
The "Radio Button" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Default", "Tooltip", "Options", "Horizontal", "Required",  "Read Only", "Visible To", "Impact Progress Bar", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: CheckboxThe "Checkbox" element can be used to add one or more subtasks with a checkbox for each item.
Quickly add singular "Checkbox" elements for each subtask by utilizing the "duplicate" option. If the "Impact progress bar" option is enabled, the completion of each checkbox element will increase the progress bar.
You can also add multiple subtasks per checkbox element.  If the "Impact progress bar" option is enabled, all subtasks within that "Checkbox" element must be completed before the progress bar is affected.
The "Checklist" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Default", "Tooltip", "Options", "Horizontal", "Required",  "Read Only", "Visible To", "Impact Progress Bar", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: Rating The "Rating" element can be used to add a rating per number of stars.  
Ģ Use the "Color" option to set the unrated star color.
Ģ Use the "Active color" option to set the color of the stars that have been rated.  
Ģ Use the "Rating size" option to set the size of the stars in pixels.
Ģ Use the "Counter" option to set the total number of stars displayed for this element.
The "Rating" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Default", "Tooltip", "Required",  "Read Only", "Visible To", "Impact Progress Bar", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: Signature The "Signature" element can be used to collect a signature in the checklist.  
Ģ The "Height" and "Width" options can be used to modify the size of the signature box in pixels.
Ģ The "Clear button text" option allows you to modify the "Clear" button that resets the signature box and allows the user to sign again.
The "Signature" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Tooltip", "Required",  "Visible To", "Impact Progress Bar", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: Range The "Range" element can be used to add a sliding bar that depicts a range of numerical options.
Ģ The "Minimum" and "Maximum" options are used to set the minimum and maximum values used in the range.  
Ģ The "Range step" option sets the increments used for the range.
For example: If the range's minimum is "1", the maximum is "5", and the "range step" is "1", the checklist user can move the slider to select 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
Another example: If the range's minimum is "1", the maximum is "5", and the "range step" is ".5", the checklist user can move the slider to select 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, or 5.
The "Range" element also has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Default", "Tooltip", "Required", "Visible To", "Impact Progress Bar", and "Unique Name".

Form Fields: Plus Minus The "Plus Minus" element can be used to add a number field with plus and minus buttons to increase or decreased the starting value.
The "Range" element has the following options available to enable or customize: "Label", "Sub Label", "Default", "Tooltip", "Required", "Ready Only", "Visible To", "Impact Progress Bar", and "Unique Name".

Save and Publish
Once you've finished making changes, please remember to click the "Save & Publish" button to push the changes live, or use the "Save" button if you only want to save the changes in the Checklist Builder.
To exit the checklist builder and return to the checklist listing, click the back arrow at the top left corner of the page.  

Next Steps
After creating a new checklist and adding tasks/subtasks to the list, you should review and set your preferences in the checklist's "Settings" tab.  The Settings tab is located just to the right of the Builder tab at the top of the Checklist Builder page. 
There are four sections under the checklist Settings tab: Settings, Dependencies, Conditions, and Tags.
Ģ Click here to learn how to enable and customize checklist settings in the "Settings" section.
Ģ Click here to learn how to use the "Dependencies" section to set up checklists for different job types or combinations of services.  
Ģ Click here to learn how to display or hide certain tasks/subtasks using conditional logic in the "Conditions" section.  
Ģ Click here to learn how to set up and manage checklist tags under the "Tags" section.



Checklist settings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/checklist-settings

Checklist settings
Learn how to enable and disable settings that control customer and provider checklist access, checklist notes, automated checklist notifications, and more.

Last updated on 10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Edit the checklist name
Ģ Require mandatory checklist completion for providers
Ģ Display checklists, the checklist progress page, and checklist media to customers
Ģ Allow customers to send checklist notes to the admin/staff/provider(s)
Ģ Enable automated checklist notifications
Ģ Set checklist preferences for recurring services
Ģ Allow providers to send checklist notes to the admin/staff/customer
Ģ Set default checklist notes for the customer and/or the provider(s)
Ģ Manage tags used for checklist media and tasks

Getting Started This article goes over how to customize the checklist settings section for a new or existing checklist in the Checklist Module. If you have not created a checklist yet, click here to learn how to add and build a checklist.

The Checklist "Settings" Section
As an admin or staff member with permission, you can access the admin checklist dashboard from the left-side menu in the admin/staff dashboard under:  Settings > General > Checklist

Once the dashboard has opened, select "Options" then "Edit" under the "Actions" column to open a specific checklist.

To view a checklist's settings, click on the "Settings" tab to the right of the "Builder" tab at the top of the Checklist Builder page. 

By default, the "Settings" tab always directs to the "Settings" section located at the top of the left-side menu.

Checklist Name The topmost field allows you to edit the name of this checklist. 

Mandatory Checklist Settings The next setting is "Is the provider/team required to complete the checklist before clocking out?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to block providers from clocking out of the booking until the checklist has been completed.  
Ģ Select "No" to allow providers to clock out without first completing the checklist.

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, there may be an additional question below.*

"How should the system handle an incomplete checklist if the provider(s) are automatically clocked out?"
Ģ Select "Send a push notification to remind the provider(s) to complete the checklist" so the provider is prompted to complete the checklist before clocking out.
Ģ Select "Automatically mark the checklist as complete if the provider(s) are automatically clocked out" to have the system mark any remaining tasks as "complete" when the provider clocks out.

*This question will only appear if you have enabled automatic clock-outs under the GPS & Time Logs settings section under Settings > General > Store Options > Provider tab.

Customer Checklist Settings The next setting is "Would you like customers to be able to see the checklist?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to see the checklist associated with their booking(s).  
Ģ Select "No" if customers should not be able to see the checklist, regardless of whether it has been completed or not.

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, there will be a few additional questions to set your preferences for customer checklist visibility.

"When will the checklist be displayed to customers?"
Ģ Select "Always display the checklist to the customer" to allow customers to see the checklist associated with their booking(s) before and after it has been completed.  
Ģ Select "Only display the checklist after it has been completed" if you only want customers to see the checklist after it has been completed.  Customers will not be able to reference the checklist before the day of the service.

"Would you like customers to see a checklist progress bar that displays the percentage of completed tasks/subtasks?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to see a checklist progress bar in their dashboard that displays the percentage of tasks/subtasks completed.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the checklist progress bar from customers.

"Should customers be able to see who completed a task on the checklist?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to see a name associated with each completed task.
Ģ Select "No" to hide the name of the person or company who completed each task.

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, there will be a few additional options to set your preference for whose name will be displayed.
Ģ Select "Show the name(s) of the provider(s), team, admin, or staff" to display the name of the individual(s) who completed the task.  
Ģ Select "Show your business name" to display the business name next to each completed task.

If you selected "Show your business name" for the previous question, the system will display your default business name as set under the Settings > General > Store Options > General > Store Info section.  

You can also edit the business name as displayed in this checklist using the field just below the "Show your business name" option.*

*If you change the business name using the option above, any future changes applied to the business name in the "Store Info" section will not impact the name used for this checklist.
Ģ For example, if your business name in the "Store Info" section is "Better Services LLC", the default business name used for the checklist will also be "Best Services LLC". 
Ģ If you change the business name in the checklist to "Even Better Services LLC", it will NOT change the store name "Better Services LLC" set in the "Store Info" section.  
Ģ If the business name in the "Store Info" section is later updated to "Best Services LLC", the checklist business name will NOT be updated and will still be displayed as "Better Services LLC".

"Would you like the customer to see files added to the checklist?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to see files that have been uploaded to the checklist. 
Ģ Select "No" if only the staff, providers, and admin should be able to see files uploaded to the checklist.

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, select one or more tags from the drop-down menu below to allow customers to see media using these tags.  The "Select All" option at the top of the menu will allow customers to see files associated with any/all possible tags.  

"Tags" are labels that can be applied to job media added to the checklist. The system has three default tags: "Before", "After," and "Damages". Custom tags can be added from the "Tags" section. 
Click here to learn more about checklist tags and how to create your own.

"Should customers be able to add notes to the checklist?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to add notes to the checklist. The "checklist notes" feature is a chat-based communication tool that allows the admin/staff/provider and the customer to interact by sending notes associated with the checklist's tasks/subtasks.  
Ģ Select "No" to disable the "checklist notes" feature for customers.  Only admin, staff, and providers (if permitted) will be able to send and view notes added to the checklist.

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, there will be an additional option to configure just below.

"Would you like to allow customers to add notes for individual tasks/subtasks or should the notes be added for all tasks/subtasks?"
Ģ Select "Individual tasks/subtasks" if you would like to allow customers to send/add notes for specific tasks or subtasks on the checklist.
Ģ If you selected "Individual tasks/subtasks", decide which tasks/subtasks the customer can send notes about using the "Select task(s)/subtask(s)" drop-down menu.
Ģ Select "All tasks/subtasks" if you would like the customer's notes to be associated with all tasks/subtasks in the checklist.

Checklist Notifications "Would you like to enable automated notifications when the checklist is complete?"  This option controls if notifications will be automatically sent by the system when the checklist is complete. 
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable the checklist notifications. 
Ģ Check the box(es) next to "Email" and/or "SMS" to enable the notification type(s).
Ģ Check the boxes next to "Admin" and/or "Customer" to enable notifications for each user type.  
Ģ Select "No" to disable the automated checklist notifications.

Recurring Service Checklist Settings "If the service is recurring, would you like to display this checklist for all bookings in the series?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to use/display the same checklist for all bookings in the recurring service.
Ģ Select "No" to set a finite number of bookings to display this checklist.

If you selected "No" to the previous question, there will be two different options to set which booking(s) in the recurring series will use/display this checklist.   
Ģ Select "Display this checklist for the first [#] appointments" to enable the checklist for the first 1 to 10 bookings. Any bookings after the first [1-10] as designated here will not use this checklist.  
Ģ Select "Display this checklist after [#] appointments" to enable the checklist after 1 to 10 bookings have occurred. Any bookings before the first [1-10] as designated here will not use this checklist.

Provider Checklist Note Settings "Should providers be able to add notes to the checklist?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow providers to add and send checklist notes.  The "checklist notes" feature is a chat-based communication tool that allows the admin/staff/provider and the customer to interact by sending notes associated with the checklist's tasks/subtasks. 
Ģ Select "No" to disable the "checklist notes" feature for providers.  Only admin, staff, and customers (if permitted) will be able to send and view notes added to the checklist.

If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, there will be two additional questions just below.

"Would you like to allow providers to add notes for individual tasks/subtasks or should the notes be added for all tasks/subtasks?"
Ģ Select "Individual tasks/subtasks" to allow providers to send/add notes for specific tasks or subtasks on the checklist.  
Ģ If you selected "Individual tasks/subtasks", decide which tasks/subtasks the provider can add/send notes regarding by using the "Select task(s)/subtask(s)" drop-down menu.
Ģ Select "All tasks/subtasks" if you would like the provider's notes to be associated with all tasks/subtasks in the checklist.

"If a team is assigned to the booking, who will be allowed to add notes to the checklist?"
Ģ Select "Team leader only" if you would only like team members designated as the "team leader" to add/send checklist notes.  
Ģ You can check and edit a team's leader by going to Providers > Providers > [Team Name] > Team Members tab.  
Ģ Select "Everyone (individually)" if you would like all team members to have access to the checklist notes feature.

Default Checklist Note Settings The next two options allow you to set a default note that is displayed to customers and/or providers when they access the checklist.  

"Would you like to set up a default checklist note to display to customers?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to set up a default note for customers.  
Ģ Select "No" if a default note for customers is unnecessary.

If you select "Yes" for this option, use the text editor to construct the default note that customers will see for this checklist.
The text editor includes options to apply style and formatting to the text.  To do so, highlight the test with your cursor and then click on an icon to select a different font, color, alignment, etc.  

A default checklist note for providers can be set for providers as well by selecting "Yes" for the question, "Would you like to set up a default checklist note to display to providers?"

Checklist Media Tag Settings Tags can be used to label and filter media (previously referred to as "Job Pictures") that have been uploaded to the checklist.
The system includes three default tags: "Before", "After", and "Damages". You can add your custom tags from the Tags section on this page (covered in an upcoming section).
To enable one or more tags for this checklist, check the box next to each tag number from the "Select tag(s)" drop-down menu, or chose "Select All" to enable all possible tags for use in the checklist.

Saving Changes to the Checklist Settings At the very bottom of the "Settings" section, be sure to click the blue "Save" button if you have made any changes to your checklist's settings.  

Save and Publish Once you've finished making changes, please remember to click the "Save & Publish" button to save the new checklist settings.  

Next Steps Once you have gone through the checklist's main "Settings" section, you should review the three other sections located in the "Settings" tab: Dependencies, Conditions, and Tags.
Click here to learn how to use the "Dependencies" section to set up checklists for different job types or combinations of services.
Click here to learn how to display or hide certain tasks/subtasks using conditional logic in the "Conditions" section.
Click here to learn how to set up and manage checklist tags under the "Tags" section.
You can also return to the Checklist Builder if you need to further customize the tasks and subtasks used by this checklist.
Click here to learn how to create a new checklist by adding tasks, subtasks, and other elements from the Checklist Builder.



Checklist dependencies
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/checklist-dependencies

Checklist dependencies
Learn how to set up checklists for different job types or combinations of services.

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are dependencies
Ģ How checklist dependencies work
Ģ How to set up "any" and "exact" combination dependencies
Ģ How to create checklists for multiple industries
Ģ How to set the checklist priority for multiple checklist dependencies

Getting Started
This article goes over how to customize checklist conditions for a new or existing checklist in the Checklist Module.

What are "dependencies"?
"Dependencies" are used in the BookingKoala booking form to display custom options based on the selection made on the booking form.
Most commonly, the booking form uses dependencies to show or hide services based on selections made on the form.
In the Checklist Module, checklist dependencies determine which checklists appear based on the selected form parameters in the booking form. These form parameters include options like extras, packages, pricing parameters, addons, items, and package addons.

Starter and Growing Plan Checklist FeaturesIn the Starter and Growing Plans, you can create a unique checklist for each service category, allowing you to tailor tasks based on the specific services you offer.
However, these plans do not include access to advanced features like setting up dependencies based on parameters such as location, frequency, or extras. Additionally, the "EXACT Combination" option or the use of the ōExclude checklist optionö and the ability to reuse the same checklist across multiple industries are not available in these plans.

Premium Plan Checklist Features
Ģ The Premium Plan includes all features in the checklist dependencies section, including the ability to make "EXACT/ANY Combinations" and the "Exclude checklist option" available for every form parameter, except service categories, locations, and frequencies.
Ģ Service categories, locations & frequencies form parameters will work like the "ANY" type combination.
Ģ This Plan also includes the option to use the same checklist for multiple industries and forms.

Setting Up Checklist Dependencies
To manage checklist dependencies within the Checklist Builder in BookingKoala, follow these step-by-step instructions to access the settings section and configure your checklist dependencies effectively.
Checklist dependencies are managed under the "Dependencies" section in the Checklist Builder "Settings" section.

1174 As an admin or staff member (with permission), you can access the admin checklist dashboard from the left-side menu in the admin/staff dashboard under: Settings > General > Checklist
1175 Once the dashboard has opened, select "Options" then "Edit" under the "Actions" column to open a specific checklist.
1176 Next, click on the "Settings" tab to the right of the "Builder" tab at the top of the Checklist Builder page.
1177 Then, click on the "Dependencies" section from the left-side menu.
1178 Now you can see the form parameters with their Exact/Any & Exclude options.

Note: Service categories, locations, and frequencies do not have an "Exact" or "Any" option; they are automatically set to "Any" by default. Additionally, unlike other form parameters, they do not include an "Exclude" option.

Exclude Checklist Option
1179 The "Exclude Checklist" option is available in the Premium Subscription only.
1180 Exclude options are used to exclude a checklist when the user does not select anything from a specific form parameter.
For example, if you want to exclude a checklist for a booking where no 'Extras' are selected, simply check the exclude option next to 'Extras' in the checklist dependencies, and the checklist will not be shown.

"Any" Combination Dependencies
Ģ The "Any" combination option is available in the Starter, Growing, and Premium Subscriptions.
Ģ Any combination of the selected form parameters can be used to define the checklist dependencies.
Suppose you want to show the checklist for the bookings where the four-wheeler is selected in the items section, then you can select all the four-wheelers in the items in the dependencies section with the ōAnyö combination.

"Exact" Combination DependenciesThe "Exact" combination option is available in the Premium Subscription only.
If you select "Exact", the system will check an exact combination of booking form parameters based on the dependencies in this section.
Ģ If the combination of dependencies on the booking form matches the ones enabled for the checklist, it will be displayed for the booking.
Ģ If the combination does NOT match the dependencies settings, the checklist will not be shown.
Ģ For this option, only the parameters selected/enabled in the booking will be checked by the system.
LetÆs say you are setting up your checklist for the Hair Salon industry. Now you can set different checklists according to the needs of the customer. Suppose the customer selects for Facials in the æItemsÆ section. You can select Facials in the æItemsÆ section of the checklist dependencies. Now, the checklist will be visible if and only if the Facials are selected for the booking in the Items section.

Checklists for Multiple Industries Premium Subscribers have the option, "Do you want to create a checklist for multiple industries?", if their account has more than one active industry. This allows the admin to create a single checklist and use it for multiple industries without having to create the same checklist numerous times.
Ģ If you select "Yes", a "Choose Industry" section will appear with a checkbox next to each industry tab and form tab. Check the box next to the industry tab and booking form(s) that will use this checklist.
? For example, if the "Home Cleaning" industry uses four different forms (Form 1, Form 2, Form 4, and Form 5), this option will show all four forms under the "Home Cleaning" industry tab. The admin can enable the form(s) that will use this checklist.
? Admin can enable additional forms from under the "Office Cleaning" industry tab if this checklist covers the same areas as those in the "Home Cleaning" forms.
Ģ If you select "No", a "Choose Industry" drop-down menu will allow you to select the industry(ies) that will use this checklist.
Beneath each "Industry" and "Form" tab, parameters for each booking form can be enabled or disabled to create custom checklist dependencies.

Saving Changes to Checklist DependenciesAt the very bottom of the "Settings" section, be sure to click the blue "Save" button if you have set up or made any changes to the checklist's dependencies.
A green system alert will appear in the top right corner, confirming that the dependencies have been saved successfully.

Save and Publish Once you've finished making changes, please remember to click the "Save & Publish" button to save the new checklist settings.

Set the Checklist Order of Priority
If you have created more than one checklist using "Any" combination dependencies, you can change the order of priority in which checklists are displayed on the "Checklist Progress" page for providers, admin, customers, and staff.

To set the checklist priority, open the admin checklist dashboard under:
Settings > Checklist

1181 Click the white "Set Priority" button near the top right corner of the page.
1182 A "Checklist Priority" menu will appear on the right side of the screen. To change the checklist order, hold the "drag to reorder" icon to the left of the schedule name and drag it up or down the list.
1183 Once you are finished setting the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom left corner of the menu. A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner of the page, confirming that the priority has been updated successfully.

Next Steps
Once you have gone through the checklist "Dependencies" section, you should review the two remaining sections located in the "Settings" tab: Conditions and Tags.
Ģ Click here to learn how to display or hide certain tasks/subtasks using conditional logic in the "Conditions" section.
Ģ Click here to learn how to set up and manage checklist tags under the "Tags" section.
You can also return to the Checklist Builder or the other checklist Settings sections to adjust other aspects of the checklist.
Ģ Click here to learn how to build a checklist by adding tasks, subtasks, and other elements from the Checklist Builder.
Ģ Click here to learn how to enable and customize checklist settings in the "Settings" section.



Checklist conditions
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/checklist-conditions

BookingKoala

Looking for help?

Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides

BookingKoala Help Center

Checklists

Checklist conditions

Learn how to set up conditional logic to show or hide tasks based on the state of other tasks in the checklist.

Last updated on10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ What are conditions
Ģ How checklist conditions work
Ģ How to add new conditions to checklists
Ģ How to manage existing conditions
Getting Started

This article goes over how to customize checklist conditions for a new or existing checklist in theChecklist Module.Ā If you have not created a checklist yet,click hereto learn how to create your first checklist.

What are "conditions"?
"Conditions" or "conditional logic" is used in the BookingKoala Hiring and Checklist Modules to set rules that tell the system to show or hide a field based on the stateĀof a different field.

In theChecklist Module, checklist conditions are used toshow or hide subtasks based on the status of another subtask.Ā Applying conditional logic to your checklists helps the checklist user(s) navigate and complete tasks with greater ease.

Ģ Conditions hide tasks that do not apply to a job, saving time for the provider(s)/admin/staff when viewing the checklist.
Ģ Hidden tasks help provider(s)/admin/staff focus on the tasks that apply to the job.
Ģ Conditions can be used to create sequential tasks that are only displayed after the previous task has been completed.
Checklist conditions are set up in the "Conditions" settings section for each checklist in theChecklist Builder.This section contains options to add new conditions as well as edit, disable, or delete existing conditions for a checklist.

How do checklist conditions work?
Although there are many forms of conditional logic, the Checklist BuilderĀuses"IF statements"to carry out directives on which subtasks will be displayed on the checklist.ĀĀ"IF statements" allow you to make logical comparisons between an actual value and the expected value by checking for a condition and returning results if the condition is considered true or false.

Ģ Ifsomething istrue, the checklist willdosomething.
Ģ Ifsomething isfalse, the checklist willdosomething else.
For example, let's say a home cleaning checklist has a kitchen cleaning subtask called "Wash dishes".Ā Conditions can be set up to show a second field, "How many loads of dishes were washed?", but only if dishwashing has been completed.

These rules can be translated into "IF" statements and added to the checklist's "Conditions" section.

Ģ Ifthe "Wash Dishes" fieldis empty(incomplete),hidethe "How many loads of dishes?" field from the checklist.
Ģ Ifthe "Wash Dishes" fieldis filled(completed),showthe "How many loads of dishes?" field on the checklist.
Another example is if providers are encouraged to follow anorder of operationswhile cleaning a bathroom.Ā Checklist conditions can be used to display one step at a time, only showing the next task once the previous task has been completed.

If the task order is "Mirrors", "Countertops", "Sink", "Tub/Shower", "Toilet", and "Floors/baseboards",Āthe following "IF" statements would be added to the checklist's "Conditions" section.

Ģ Ifthe "Mirrors" fieldis empty(incomplete),hidethe "Countertops", "Sink", "Tub/Shower", "Toilet", and "Floors/baseboards"Āfields from the checklist.
Ģ Ifthe "Mirrors"Āfieldis filled(completed),showthe "Countertops"Āfield on the checklist.
Ģ Ifthe "Countertops"Āfieldis filled(completed),showthe "Sink"Āfield on the checklist.
Ģ Ifthe "Sink"Āfieldis filled(completed),showthe "Tub/Shower"Āfield on the checklist.
Ģ Ifthe "Tub/Shower"Āfieldis filled(completed),showthe "Toilet"Āfield on the checklist.
Ģ Ifthe "Toilet"Āfieldis filled(completed),showthe "Toilet"Āfield on the checklist.
Ģ Ifthe "Tub/Shower"Āfieldis filled(completed),showthe "Floors/baseboards"Āfield on the checklist.

Setting Up Checklist Conditions
As anadminorstaff(with permission), you can access theadmin checklist dashboardfrom the left-side menu in theadmin/staff dashboardunder:

Settings > General > Checklist

Once the dashboard has opened, select "Options" then "Edit" under the "Actions" column to open a specific checklist.

Next, click on the "Settings" tab to the right of the "Builder" tab at the top of the Checklist Builder page.

Then, click on the "Conditions" section from the left-side menu.

Add a New Condition

To create a new condition, click the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page and an "Add condition" menu will appear on the right side of the page.

Conditions are built using four main components: "IF", "STATE", "DO", and "FIELD". The "STATE" component may also require a "TARGET" if the condition is comparingĀone subtask or value to another.

Ģ Click on the "IF" dropdown menu to select a field/subtask to check.The names of the field/subtasks in this list are set up under the "unique name" option for each element in the Checklist builder.Click hereto learn more about how to add and customize checklist elements in the Checklist Builder.
Ģ Next, select a "STATE" from the dropdown menu to set how the system will evaluate this element.There are 6 options for the conditions STATE:Is Equal To- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if it is equal to another element or its value.For example, if the "Flooring type" fieldis equal tothe option "Ceramic/tile",showthe "Sweep floors" and "Mop Floors" subtasks.Is Not Equal To- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if it is not equal to another element or its value.For example, if the "Flooring type" fieldis not equal tothe option "Genuine wood",hidethe "Wax floors" subtask.Is Empty- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element is empty or incomplete.For example, if the "Counter type" fieldis empty/incomplete,hidethe "Wet wipe with marble cleaner", "Wet wipe with granite cleaner", "Wet wipe with general degreaser", and "Wet wipe with wood oil cleaner" subtasks.Is Filled- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element is filled or complete.For example, if the "Wash dishes" fieldis filled/complete, show the "Total Loads of dishes" field.Is Less Than- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element or its value is less than the designated value.For example, if the field "How dirty are the baseboards on a scale of 1 - 5? (1 = very clean, 5 = very dirty)" isless thanthe value "3",showthe "Dust baseboards" subtask.Is Greater Than-ĀA checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element or its value is greater than the designated value.For example, if the field "How dirty are the baseboards on a scale of 1 - 5? (1 = very clean, 5 = very dirty)" isgreater thanthe value "3",showthe "Wet wipe baseboards" subtask.
Ģ Is Equal To- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if it is equal to another element or its value.For example, if the "Flooring type" fieldis equal tothe option "Ceramic/tile",showthe "Sweep floors" and "Mop Floors" subtasks.
Ģ For example, if the "Flooring type" fieldis equal tothe option "Ceramic/tile",showthe "Sweep floors" and "Mop Floors" subtasks.
Ģ Is Not Equal To- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if it is not equal to another element or its value.For example, if the "Flooring type" fieldis not equal tothe option "Genuine wood",hidethe "Wax floors" subtask.
Ģ For example, if the "Flooring type" fieldis not equal tothe option "Genuine wood",hidethe "Wax floors" subtask.
Ģ Is Empty- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element is empty or incomplete.For example, if the "Counter type" fieldis empty/incomplete,hidethe "Wet wipe with marble cleaner", "Wet wipe with granite cleaner", "Wet wipe with general degreaser", and "Wet wipe with wood oil cleaner" subtasks.
Ģ For example, if the "Counter type" fieldis empty/incomplete,hidethe "Wet wipe with marble cleaner", "Wet wipe with granite cleaner", "Wet wipe with general degreaser", and "Wet wipe with wood oil cleaner" subtasks.
Ģ Is Filled- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element is filled or complete.For example, if the "Wash dishes" fieldis filled/complete, show the "Total Loads of dishes" field.
Ģ For example, if the "Wash dishes" fieldis filled/complete, show the "Total Loads of dishes" field.
Ģ Is Less Than- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element or its value is less than the designated value.For example, if the field "How dirty are the baseboards on a scale of 1 - 5? (1 = very clean, 5 = very dirty)" isless thanthe value "3",showthe "Dust baseboards" subtask.
Ģ For example, if the field "How dirty are the baseboards on a scale of 1 - 5? (1 = very clean, 5 = very dirty)" isless thanthe value "3",showthe "Dust baseboards" subtask.
Ģ Is Greater Than-ĀA checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element or its value is greater than the designated value.For example, if the field "How dirty are the baseboards on a scale of 1 - 5? (1 = very clean, 5 = very dirty)" isgreater thanthe value "3",showthe "Wet wipe baseboards" subtask.
Ģ For example, if the field "How dirty are the baseboards on a scale of 1 - 5? (1 = very clean, 5 = very dirty)" isgreater thanthe value "3",showthe "Wet wipe baseboards" subtask.
Next, select a "STATE" from the dropdown menu to set how the system will evaluate this element.There are 6 options for the conditions STATE:

Is Equal To- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if it is equal to another element or its value.

Is Not Equal To- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if it is not equal to another element or its value.

Is Empty- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element is empty or incomplete.

Is Filled- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element is filled or complete.

Is Less Than- A checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element or its value is less than the designated value.

Is Greater Than-ĀA checklist element will be shown or hidden if another element or its value is greater than the designated value.

Ģ If a condition's"STATE"compares one element to another,Ā there is a "TARGET" dropdown to designate another element or option.Select"Value" to compare a field's options or value to another.Ā For example,Āthe "Flooring type" fieldĀhas the followingvalues:Ā"Genuine wood","Manufactured wood","Ceramic","Ceramic/tile",Āand "Laminate".In this case, values are used to show different tasks based on the type of flooring in the room.Select "Another Field" to compare the name of one field to another field.
Ģ Select"Value" to compare a field's options or value to another.Ā For example,Āthe "Flooring type" fieldĀhas the followingvalues:Ā"Genuine wood","Manufactured wood","Ceramic","Ceramic/tile",Āand "Laminate".In this case, values are used to show different tasks based on the type of flooring in the room.
Ģ Select "Another Field" to compare the name of one field to another field.
If a condition's"STATE"compares one element to another,Ā there is a "TARGET" dropdown to designate another element or option.
Ģ After selecting options for the "IF" and "STATE" (and a "TARGET", if applicable), select an action from the "DO" dropdown menu.Select "Show" to display another subtask or element on the checklist if the condition is met.Select "Hide" to remove another subtask or element on the checklist if the condition is met.
Ģ Select "Show" to display another subtask or element on the checklist if the condition is met.
Ģ Select "Hide" to remove another subtask or element on the checklist if the condition is met.
After selecting options for the "IF" and "STATE" (and a "TARGET", if applicable), select an action from the "DO" dropdown menu.
Ģ Finally, select an option from the "FIELD" dropdown menu.Ā This is the field that will be shown or hidden if the condition is met.
Once you are finished making your selections, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page to add the condition to the checklist.

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the condition has been added successfully.

Multiple "IF" and "DO" Conditions

It is possible to add multiple "IF" and "DO" clauses to a single condition by clicking the blue "+" icon to the right of the clause.Ā To delete a clause, click the blue "-" icon.

If there is more than one "IF" statement, select if the actions should be performed ifANYof the conditions are met, or only ifALLconditions are met.

Edit a Condition

To edit a checklist condition, click thepencil icon/"Edit" button under the "Actions" column.

This will open the right-side menu where you can view and edit the condition's clauses.Ā Once finished, click the blue "Save" button to update the condition.

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the condition has been updated.

Disable or Enable a Condition

Todisablea condition, click theslash icon/"Disable" button under the "Actions" column.

A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to disable this condition for the checklist.Ā If you are certain you'd like to proceed, click the blue "Disable" button in the window.Ā If not, use the white "Cancel" button to return to the "Conditions" section.

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the tag has been disabled successfully.Ā The tag's status in the "Conditions" will now show as "Disabled".

Toenablea condition, click theslash icon/"Enable" button under the "Actions" column.

A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to enable this condition for the checklist.Ā If you are certain you'd like to proceed, click the blue "Enable" button in the window.Ā If not, use the white "Cancel" button to return to the "Conditions" section.

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the tag has been disabled successfully.Ā The tag's status in the "Conditions" will now show as "Enabled" again.

Delete a Condition

To delete a condition, click thetrashcan icon/"Delete" button under the "Actions" column.

A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to delete this condition from the checklist.

If you are certain you'd like to proceed, click the blue "Delete" button in the window.Ā If not, use the white "Cancel" button to go back to the "Conditions" section.

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the tag has been deleted.

Save and Publish

Once you've finished making changes, please remember to click the"Save & Publish" button to save the new checklist settings.

Next Steps
Once you have set up conditions for a checklist, you should review the final section located in the checklist "Settings" tab.

Ģ Click hereto learn how to set up and manage checklist tags under the "Tags" section.
You can also return to theChecklist Builderor the other checklistSettingssectionsĀto adjust other aspects of the checklist.
Ģ Click hereto learnĀhow tobuild a checklistby adding tasks, subtasks, and other elements from the Checklist Builder.
Ģ Click hereto learn how the "Dependencies" section is used to set up checklists for different job types or combinations of services.
Ģ Click hereto learn how to display or hide certain tasks/subtasks using conditional logic in the "Conditions" section.
Checklist & job media tags



Checklist & job media tags
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/checklist-job-media-tags

Checklist & job media tags
Learn more about checklist tags, including how to add new tags and manage tag settings for each checklist.

Last updated on 10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How checklist "tags" work
Ģ How to add new tags to checklists
Ģ How to manage existing tags

Getting Started
This article goes over how to customize checklist tags for a new or existing checklist in the Checklist Module. If you have not created a checklist yet, click here to learn how to create your first checklist.

What are "checklist tags"?
"Tags" are labels used throughout the BookingKoala dashboard to help you more quickly identify important details about customers, providers, staff members, or bookings in your account.

In the Checklist Module, checklist tags are used to label job media (previously referred to as "Job Pictures") uploaded to the checklist.

Once tagged, media can be filtered by tag in the "Job Media" section by the admin, provider(s), staff, and customers depending on your checklist settings.

Managing Checklist Tags
Checklist tags can be set up and customized in the "Tags" settings section for each checklist in the Checklist Builder. This section contains options to edit or delete existing tags, add new tags, and customize which tags are enabled for each checklist.

As an admin or staff member with permission, you can access the admin checklist dashboard from the left-side menu in the admin/staff dashboard under: Settings > General > Checklist

Once the dashboard has opened, select "Options" then "Edit" under the "Actions" column to open a specific checklist.

Next, click on the "Settings" tab to the right of the "Builder" tab at the top of the Checklist Builder page.

Then, click on the "Tags" section from the left-side menu.

Conditions are managed separately for each task added to the checklist. To view conditions for a specific task, select the task's name in the left-side menu.

Add a New Tag
To create a new tag, click the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page and an "Add new tag" pop-up window will appear.

1184 Enter the name of the tag into the topmost field on the window.
1185 Under the "Add tag for checklist(s)" section, check the boxes next to the checklist name(s) to add the tag for the selected checklists, or, choose the "Select All" option to add the tag to every checklist.
1186 Once you are finished making your selections, click the blue "Save" button to add the new tag to the checklist(s).

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the tag has been saved successfully.

Edit an Existing Tag
To edit the name of an existing tag, click the pencil icon/"Edit" button under the "Actions" column.

The name can be edited in the resulting "Update tag" pop-up window. Once you are finished making changes, click the blue "Update" button to save the new tag name.

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the tag has been updated.

Delete a Tag
To delete a tag, click the trashcan icon/"Delete" button under the "Actions" column.

A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to delete this tag.
Ģ Deleting a tag removes the tag from any tagged media
Ģ Once deleted, the tag cannot be used on checklists unless a new tag is created.

If you are certain you'd like to proceed, click the blue "Delete" button in the window. If not, you can always click the white "Cancel" button instead.

A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the tag has been deleted.

Add a Tag to One or More Checklists
To add a tag to one or multiple checklists, click the plus sign icon/"Add to checklist" button under the "Actions" column.

A pop-up window will appear showing the list of all active checklists in the Checklist Module. Check the boxes next to the checklist name(s) to add the tag, or click the "Select All" option to add the tag to every checklist.

Once you are finished making your selection(s), click the blue "Update" button to update the tag for your checklist(s). A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming that the tag settings have been updated successfully.

Save and Publish
Once you've finished making changes, please remember to click the "Save & Publish" button to save the new checklist settings.

Next Steps
After checklist tags have been set up and customized for your checklists, they can be applied to media that has been added to the checklist. Instructions on how to add and view tags (as well as other checklist features) are covered in the guides below.
Ģ Click here to learn more about admin access to the checklist features.
Ģ Click here to learn more about staff permissions and access to the checklist features.
Ģ Click here to learn more about provider access to the checklist features.
Ģ Click here to learn more about customer access to the checklist features.



Translating checklists
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/translating-checklists

Translating checklists
Learn how to translate checklists into a different language or multiple languages.

Last updated on 10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to translate a checklist into one or more languages

Before You Begin
Before you can start translating a checklist, you must configure your Google Translation integration.
Ģ Click here for instructions on setting up multiple languages and translations via Google Translate.

You should also have started work on at least one checklist in the "Checklist Builder" under Settings > General > Checklist.
Ģ Click here for instructions on creating checklists using the Checklist Builder.

Translate a Checklist
Checklists can be translated into a different language or multiple languages using the "Manage Translation" option at the top of the "Checklist Builder".

As an admin or staff member with permission, you can access the admin checklist dashboard from the left-side menu in the admin/staff dashboard under:

Settings > General > Checklist

Once the dashboard has opened, select "Options" then "Edit" under the "Actions" column to open a specific checklist.

Next, click the grey "Manage Translation" button at the top-right corner of the checklist preview area.

A "Translation" pop-up window will appear.

To translate the text and phrases, or "strings" used in the checklist, select the language you would like to translate the checklist into from the "Select Language" dropdown menu.

Next, check the box below "Select All", or, use the search bar or browse through the list to select the checkboxes next to each string you want to translate. Click the blue "Translate" button to run the translation key.

After translating the strings, you will see a green system alert confirming the translation was successful. To save the translations to the checklist, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the window.

A green system alert will confirm the translation has been saved successfully.



Admin checklist dashboard
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/admin-checklist-dashboard

Admin checklist dashboard
Learn how to view, filter, add, edit, archive, publish, and delete checklists from the admin checklist dashboard

Last updated on 10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ How to access the admin checklist dashboard
Ģ How to filter and search for checklists
Ģ How to change the checklist priority
Ģ How to add, edit, duplicate, archive, publish, and delete checklists

Admin Checklist Dashboard
The "admin checklist dashboard" is a section in the admin and staff dashboard used to create and manage checklists. This section allows admin and staff members (with permission to access it) to add new checklists and enable other checklist-related features.

"Checklists" are interactive lists of tasks and subtasks associated with a booking or service type. Click here to see an overview of the "Checklist Module" features and how to get started.

As an admin or staff member with permission, you can access the admin checklist dashboard from the left-side menu in the admin/staff dashboard under:
Settings > General > Checklist

Checklist Filters
The main section on the page list all of the checklists that have been created in the system. Three filters along the top of the page can be used to sort checklists based on checklist status, industry, and frequency.

Ģ The "Checklist Status" filter shows checklists based on their status: "Published", "Archived", and "Drafted".
? "Published" checklists have been pushed live so they CAN be used by providers, customers, admin, and staff for services.
? "Archived" checklists have been deactivated so they can NOT be used by providers, customers, admin, and staff for services.
? "Drafted" checklists have NOT been pushed live yet and can only be seen by admin and staff with permission from the admin checklist dashboard.
Ģ The "Industry" filter shows checklists based on their industry if your account uses more than one industry.
Ģ The "Frequency" filter shows checklists based on their frequency if your account uses more than one frequency.

Checklist Priority
The admin dashboard also has a "Set Priority" button that can be used to change the checklists' order in the system. This option is helpful if you have set up checklist dependencies or show multiple checklists per booking.

To set the checklist priority, click on the white "Set Priority" button near the top right corner of the page.

A "Checklist Priority" menu will appear on the right side of the screen. To change the checklist order, hold the "drag to reorder" icon to the left of the schedule name and drag it up or down the list.

Once you are finished setting the order, click the blue "Update Priority" button at the bottom left corner of the menu. A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner of the page, confirming that the priority has been updated successfully.

Add and Manage Checklists
The admin checklist dashboard also contains multiple tools to help you create and manage your business's checklists.

Add a New Checklist
To set up a new checklist, the admin and staff can use the blue "Add New Checklist" near the top right corner of the page.

Click here to view a comprehensive guide on how to create a new checklist in the "Checklist Builder".

Edit a Checklist
To edit a published, archived, or drafted checklist, locate the checklist in the admin checklist dashboard and select the "Options" button under the "Actions" column and select "Edit". You will be redirected to the "Checklist Builder" page for the selected checklist.

Click here to view our comprehensive guide on how to customize checklists.

Once you are finished making changes, just be sure to click the grey "Save" button or the blue "Save & Publish" button to push the checklist changes live.

Duplicate a Checklist
To duplicate a published, archived, or drafted checklist, locate the checklist in the admin checklist dashboard and select the "Options" button under the "Actions" column and select "Duplicate".

A "Duplicate Checklist" pop-up window will appear. Enter the name of the new checklist and click the blue "Duplicate" button to proceed.

You will be redirected to the "Checklist Builder" page for the newly duplicated checklist.

Once you are finished making changes, just be sure to click the grey "Save" button or the blue "Save & Publish" button to save any other checklist changes.

Archive a Checklist
To "archive" a checklist means the checklist will no longer be used for new or upcoming bookings. However, archived checklists will still be available for past bookings if completed.

To archive a published checklist, locate the checklist in the admin checklist dashboard and select the "Options" button under the "Actions" column and select "Archive".

An "Archive Checklist" pop-up window will appear. Click the blue "Archive" button to proceed.

A green system alert will appear at the top-right corner of the screen confirming the checklist has been archived successfully.

To view this and other archived checklists, select the "Archived" status from the "Checklist Status" filter at the top of the page.

Publish a Checklist
To publish an archived checklist, select the "Archived" status from the "Checklist Status" filter at the top of the admin checklist dashboard.

Click on the "Options" button under the "Actions" column and select "Publish".

A "Publish Checklist" pop-up window will appear. Click the blue "Publish" button to proceed.

A green system alert will appear at the top-right corner of the screen confirming the checklist has been archived successfully.

To view this and other archived checklists, select the "Published" status from the "Checklist Status" filter at the top of the page.

Delete a Checklist
To delete a published checklist, you will first need to archive it from under "Options".

Once the checklist has been archived, use the "Checklist Status" filter to view the "Archived" checklists. Then, click on the "Options" button under the "Actions" column and select "Delete".

You can also delete a drafted checklist by selecting "Drafted" from the "Checklist Status" filter and using "Options" then "Delete".

Next Steps
After familiarizing yourself with the admin checklist dashboard, you can explore how to view and use other admin/staff checklist tools in the guides below.

Ģ Click here to learn how to use the various booking form checklist tools for admin and staff.
Ģ Click here to learn about the "Checklist Progress" dashboard, including how to view live checklist updates, send notes, send messages to the customer or provider(s), and more.



Booking form checklist tools
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/booking-form-checklist-tools

Booking form checklist tools
Learn more about admin and staff checklist tools in the booking form, including how to hide checklists, update or complete subtasks, reset or complete a checklist for a provider, and add job media to a checklist.

Last updated on 10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ How to hide checklist(s) for a booking
Ģ How to view, update, and complete checklist subtasks
Ģ How to reset or complete a checklist for the provider
Ģ How to add, tag, and view job media to a checklist or booking

Booking Form Checklist Tools
In addition to the admin checklist dashboard, admin and staff (with permission) can use different Checklist Module tools for bookings from that job's "Booking Details" / "Reschedule Booking" page.

To get to the "Reschedule Booking" page, you must first locate the booking in the system. Use the search bar at the top of the admin dashboard to search for the booking by the customer's name, phone number, address, or email, or go to any of the following sections:
Ģ Dashboard > Calendar View
Ģ Dashboard > Listing View
Ģ Dashboard > Map View
Ģ Bookings > Today's Bookings
Ģ Bookings > Upcoming Bookings
Ģ Bookings > Unassigned Bookings
Ģ Bookings > Job History

Click the pencil icon / "Edit" button if viewing upcoming bookings in list view. Click the eye icon / "View" button for past bookings in list view.
Incalendar view, click on the booking in the calendar and select the "Edit" button from the "Booking Summary" menu.

Hide a Checklist When the admin or staff is booking or editing an appointment, the booking form includes a "Hide checklist" option alongside the other options "Exclude customer notification", "Exclude provider notification", etc.
The "Hide Checklist" checkbox can be used by the admin or staff to hide one or multiple checklists from the provider(s) and customers.

View, Update, and Complete a Checklist Admin can view, update, and complete subtasks for any checklist(s) associated with the booking by clicking on the "View checklist" button on the "Reschedule Booking" page.

The "View Checklist" button displays the checklist status so you can see if it is pending or completed.
Ģ "Pending" means one or more required subtasks have not yet been completed, or, the provider, staff, or admin has not clicked the "Complete Checklist" button to mark the checklist as completed.
Ģ "Completed" means all required tasks are completed and the "Complete Checklist" button has been used.

The "Booking Summary" menu in the calendar view also has a "View Checklist" button.

Once you click on the "View Checklist" button, a window will open from the right side of the page displaying the checklist and admin checklist options.

The top of the page has three "Checklist Note" icons next to the checklist name: "Merchant Note", "Provider Note", and "Customer Note". Admin and staff can use these options to send "checklist notes", a chat-like messaging interface to log and share details related to the checklist tasks.
Ģ The "Merchant Note" option sends a note that is only visible to the admin or staff.
Ģ The "Provider Note" option sends a note that is visible to the provider.
Ģ The "Customer Note" option sends a note that is visible to the customer.

To send a new note, click on one of the note icons to add notes for a specific user to see. Type a message into the text box at the bottom of the section and click the blue "Send" button.

New notes added by providers, customers, and other staff will display an orange icon showing the number of new notes on top of the merchant-, provider-, or customer-note icons.

In addition to adding notes, the system allows admin and staff to edit or delete notes they have added in these sections.

The "Checklist Details" button displays all tasks contained in the checklist. To display or hide all subtasks within a section, click the arrow icon to expand or collapse a task.

There are three buttons for each subtask on the Checklist Details page:
Ģ The "Notes" button allows admin and staff to send/add notes for a specific subtask.
Ģ The "Upload" button allows admin and staff to upload job media for a specific subtask using an "Attach File" pop-up window.
Ģ The "Does Not Apply" button allows admin and staff to cancel a specific subtask that is not included in the service.

Subtasks can be marked as "completed" by clicking on the checkbox to the left of the subtask.
Tasks that are completed by admin or staff will be marked as "Completed by: Merchant".

The checklist progress bar at the top of the page will increase each time a subtask that impacts the progress bar is completed. Once all subtasks have been marked as "complete", the progress bar with display "100% Completed".

At the bottom of the checklist details page, there are three admin-only options available:
Ģ The "Reset" button clears all tasks, subtasks, notes, and job media added to the checklist.
? A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to clear all checklist progress. If you are sure, click the blue "Reset" button to proceed.
Ģ The "Mark All & Complete" button marks the checklist as complete without needing to mark each subtask as complete. This action finalizes the checklist so the provider(s) can no longer make changes.
? A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to complete the checklist. If you are sure, click the blue "Mark All & Complete" button to proceed.
Ģ The "Complete" button marks the checklist as complete once all subtasks have been marked. If any required subtasks have been missed, the checklist will display the "Required" message for that element so it can be completed.

Once a checklist has been completed, a green system alert will appear in the top-right corner of the page confirming that the checklist has been submitted successfully.
The checklist will also show as "Completed" throughout the system, including on the Checklist Progress page and the "View Checklist" button in the booking itself.

Job Media Admin and staff also have access to two "Job Media" sections via the Checklist Module. Job media (previously called "job pictures") refers to any files uploaded to the booking checklist(s) or "Job Media" section.

Media uploaded by admin, staff, and providers can be shared with customers via the checklist media tag settings.

The Job Media Dashboard The Job Media dashboard can be found under the left-side menu in the admin/staff dashboard under: Bookings > Job Media

Search for a specific booking by selecting a date or date range from the filter at the top of the page. Admin can also search for bookings by customer name, email address, phone number, etc. using the search bar at the top of the page.

Admin and staff can perform the following actions under the "Actions" column for each booking: "View", "Download All", and "Edit".
Ģ Click on the eye icon / "View" button on the booking's "Media Files" page. Here, you can view all files uploaded to that booking's checklist(s).
? Click the "All" button near the top-left corner of the page to view all media added to the booking. If tags are enabled for this checklist's media, click on a tag name to see the media using that tag.
? Click the white "Choose File" button near the top right corner of the page to upload a new file to the booking's Media Files section.
? Use the "Collage View" or "Gallery View" buttons to switch how media is displayed on the Media Files page for this booking.
? Click on the down arrow icon / "Download" icon on the top right corner of a specific file to download that file.
? Click on the trashcan icon / "Delete" icon on the top right corner of a specific file to delete that file.
Ģ Click on the down arrow icon / "Download All" button for all media uploaded to this booking.
? A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to download all job media for this booking. If you are sure, click the blue "Yes" button to proceed. A zip file containing the job media will automatically download to your local hard drive.
? The "Download All" button for job media is also available on the "Booking Summary" side menu when viewing jobs in the calendar view.
Ģ Click on the pencil icon / "Edit" button to visit the "Booking Details" / "Reschedule Booking" page for the booking.

The Job Media Button The "Job Media" button in the Booking Summary menu / "Reschedule Booking" page also allows you to view and filter job media that has been uploaded by admin, staff, and providers to the checklist(s) or "Job Media" section for a specific booking.

Admin and staff can upload new booking media directly in this section in addition to media added to the checklist.



Checklist progress dashboard
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/checklist-progress-dashboard

Checklist progress dashboard
Learn more about the "Checklist Progress" dashboard, including how to view live checklist updates, add notes, send messages to the customer or provider(s), and more.

Last updated on 14 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ How to access the "Checklist Progress" dashboard
Ģ How to filter checklists in the dashboard
Ģ Using the checklist action buttons
Ģ How to update and complete subtasks and checklists
Ģ How to send a checklist note for the merchant, customer, or provider(s)
Ģ How to send email and SMS messages to the provider(s) or customer
Ģ How to monitor checklist activity

The Checklist Progress Dashboard
If your account has a Premium Subscription, you also have access to an exclusive checklist feature called the "Checklist Progress" dashboard. This page allows the admin and staff to see any checklists belonging to various bookings and providers for the selected date.

To access the "Checklist Progress" dashboard, open the left-side menu in the admin/staff dashboard and go to:
Bookings > Checklist Progress

Dashboard Filters & Tags
Five filters along the top of the page can be used to sort bookings based on industry, location, frequency, checklist, and service date.

Ģ The "Industry" filter shows bookings with checklists based on their industry (if your account uses more than one industry).
Ģ The "Locations" filter shows bookings with checklists based on their location (if your account uses more than one location).
Ģ The "Frequency" filter shows bookings based on their frequency (if your account uses more than one frequency).
Ģ The "Checklists" filter shows bookings based on the checklist(s) enabled for that service.
Ģ The "Service Date" filter shows bookings based on when they are scheduled to take place.

The Checklist Progress dashboard also contains four boxes just above the bookings list. These display the "Total" number of checklists being monitored for the selected date/filters, the number of "Completed" checklists, how many checklists are "In Progress" and how many have "Not Yet Started".

Bookings with more than one checklist will be displayed with the "Multiple Checklist" tag and include a plus sign icon / "More" button to view the rest of the checklists.

Under the "Status" column, each checklist will display one of the following tags:
Ģ "Not Started Yet" - The provider(s)/team, staff, or admin have not yet begun marking off the checklist tasks.
Ģ "In Progress" - Some checklist tasks or subtasks have been completed.
Ģ "Completed" - All tasks and subtasks are completed or have been marked "Does not apply".

A "Checklist Progress Bar" displays the percentage of completion for each checklist as the tasks are completed.

Action Buttons
Each checklist on the Checklist Progress dashboard has four action buttons: "Checklist Details", "Notes", "Send message", and "Activity".

Ģ The "Checklist Details" button allows admin and staff to view the checklist, complete tasks, upload checklist media, and reset or complete the checklist for the provider.
Ģ The "Notes" button allows the admin and staff to add/send checklist notes to the merchant (admin), provider, and customer.
Ģ The "Send Message" button allows admin and staff to send on-demand messages via SMS or email to the customer or provider(s) associated with a booking.
Ģ The "Activity" button shows admin and staff a detailed log of all checklist actions and updates.

Checklist Details
When the eye icon / "Checklist Details" button is clicked, the full checklist will appear in a menu on the right side of the page.
This provides admin and staff access to view, update, send notes, and complete the checklist just like the "View Checklist" button on the booking form/"Reschedule Booking" page.

Notes
The second action button for each job on the "Checklist Progress" dashboard is the "Notes" icon. "Checklist Notes" are chat-like messages that allow users to log details related to the checklist.
The "Notes" button in this section allows admin and staff to quickly add merchant notes, provider notes, and customer notes to the checklist. When you select one of the three options (merchant note, provider note, or customer note), the system launches a "Note" window where text can be sent using the text box and "Add" button at the bottom of the page.
Notes can be edited or deleted using the "Edit" and "Delete" icons below each message once it has been sent.
Any notes added from this section will be visible in the note sections at the top of the "Checklist Details" page.

Send Message
The third action button for each booking on the "Checklist Progress" dashboard is the "Send Message" icon.
The "Send Message" icon allows admin and staff to send emails or SMS messages to the provider or customer.

Please Note: You must verify and set up your email and/or SMS notification settings before you can email or text message customers and providers using this feature.
Ģ Click here for our guide on how to set up and verify your business email address.
Ģ Click here to learn how to set up and connect a Twilio integration to send SMS messages.

Send an Email
If you select "Customer" or "Provider" from the "Send Email" options, the system will open a "Send Email" pop-up window.
The customer or provider's email address will be prefilled in the "Send to" field at the top of the page. You can also delete and replace or add additional emails to this section.
Add a subject line for the email by editing the "Write subject here" text in the second field from the top of the page.
In the email editor box, you can replace the "Write your message" text with your custom message or modify the email in any way you see fit.
Ģ The "Custom Message Email" customer and provider email template is used for emails sent from this feature.
? If the template is not enabled yet, you can go to Settings > Notifications > Email > Customer or Provider tab > Checklist section. The toggle button next to the "Custom Message Email" template to set it to "Enabled".
? You can also change the template's style, format, and default content by using the "Edit" button.
Once the message has been drafted, you can send a test email to your email address by using the "Send Test E-Mail" button to check the look and feel of the email before it is sent.
When the email is ready to be sent, click the blue "Send" button at the bottom of the window.
A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming the email has been sent successfully.

Send an SMS
If you select "Customer" or "Provider" from the "Send SMS" options, the system will open a "Send SMS" pop-up window.
The customer or provider's phone number will be prefilled in the "Send to" field at the top of the page. You can also delete and replace or add additional phone numbers to this section.
In the SMS editor box, you can replace the "Write your message" text with your custom message. To add links to the message, click the grey "Insert Link" button and paste the link into the field below, then click the blue "Add URL" button.
Ģ The "Custom Message SMS" customer and provider SMS templates are used for messages sent from this feature.
? If the template is not enabled yet, you can go to Settings > Notifications > SMS > Customer or Provider tab > Checklist section. The toggle button next to the "Custom Message SMS" template to set it to "Enabled".
? You can also change the template's default content using the "Edit" button in the notifications section.
Once the message has been drafted, you can send a test SMS to your phone number by using the "Send Test SMS" button.
When the SMS is ready to be sent, click the blue "Send" button at the bottom of the window.
A green system alert will appear in the top-right corner confirming the SMS has been sent successfully.

Activity
The fourth action button for each booking on the "Checklist Progress" dashboard is the "Activity" icon.
Upon clicking the "Activity" icon, the system will open an "Activities" menu on the right side of the screen. This section displays event logs for the checklist, including who updated and/or completed each subtask.
The dropdown menu at the top of the section allows you to view "All" activity, or to just view "Provider" activity or "Merchant" (admin or staff) activity.
The Growing and Premium subscriptions also display the checklist activity under:
Logs > System Logs
To filter the logs for checklist activity, click on the second dropdown menu from the left at the top of the page and select "Checklist".
Other filters can be applied to view checklist activity by user type ("Admin", "Customer", "Provider", or "Staff" ) or for a specific date or date range.

Next Steps
After familiarizing yourself with the Checklist Progress dashboard, you can explore how to view and use other admin/staff checklist tools in the guides below.
Ģ Click here to learn how to use the various booking form checklist tools for admin and staff.
Ģ Click here to learn about the "admin checklist dashboard", including how to view, filter, add, edit, archive, publish, and delete checklists.



Staff checklist permissions
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/staff-checklist-permissions

Staff checklist permissions
Learn how to set up permission for staff members to view or access the Checklist Module features, including the admin checklist dashboard, the "Checklist Progress" dashboard, and other checklist tools on the booking form

Last updated on10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:

Ģ How to enable permissions for staff to use the Checklist Module features

Getting Started

This article goes over how to set up staff permissions as related to the Checklist Module . If you have not added any staff yet or are not familiar with the Bookingkoala checklist features, please refer to the guides below.

Ģ Click here to learn more about staff accounts , including how to add a staff member and set up their account permissions.
Ģ Click here for a general overview of the "Checklist Module" and how to get started.

Staff Checklist Permissions
Like other sections of the software, the admin controls which checklist features each staff member has access to.

To view or set up a staff member's permissions, please go to:

Settings > Staff > Staff Members

You can use the search bar at the top of the page to look up a specific staff account by name , email address , or phone number .  Once you've located the account, click " Options " and select " View " to open the staff member's dashboard.

Next, click on the " Permission " tab at the top of the staff member's dashboard.

The staff member's checklist permissions are located under the " Checklist Permissions " section.

Like many other sections in this list, there are three levels of permission when it comes to allowing staff access to the checklist features: " Block ", " View ", and " Edit ".

Checklist Permissions: Block

If the " Checklists " permission is set to " Block ", staff cannot view or access the following Checklist Module features.

Ģ The "Checklist Progress" dashboard (located under Bookings > Checklist Progress ).
Ģ The "admin checklist dashboard" (located under Settings > General > Checklist ).
Ģ The "View Checklist" button (on the booking details/"Reschedule Booking" page).

Checklist Permissions: View

If the " Checklists " permission is set to " View ", you will see three new options in the section below: " Checklists Progress ", "Checklist Notes ", and " Checklist Builder ".

Staff will be able to see any of the checklist sections that are set to " View " but they will not be allowed to edit, update, or use checklists and other checklist features.

Ģ If the " Checklists Progress " permission is set to " View ", staff can see the checklist tasks using the " View Checklist " button on the " Reschedule Booking " page.

? Staff will also be able to view the " Checklists Progress " dashboard (under Bookings > Checklist Progress ) and view checklist details using the " Checklist Details " and " Checklist Activity " buttons.
Ģ If the " Checklists Notes " permission is set to " View ", staff can view checklist notes added by the admin, providers, and customers.  

Ģ However, staff will not be able to send or add new notes.
Ģ If the " Checklists Builder " permission is set to " View ", staff members can view checklists, including checklist settings, default notes, dependencies, conditions, and tags from the admin checklist dashboard (under Settings > General > Checklist ).
Ģ However, staff will not be able to edit or save any changes in the Checklist Builder or edit the Checklist Settings .

Checklist Permissions: Edit

If the " Checklists " permission is set to " Edit ", staff have full access to all of the Checklist Module sections and features.

Click here to see a full overview of the Checklist Module including guides on how to set up and use each feature.

Final Steps

If you've made any changes to the staff member's checklist permissions, please remember to click the blue " Save " button on the bottom right corner of the page.

A green system, alert will appear in the top right corner of the page confirming the staff member's permission has been updated successfully.

Checklist Access for Other User Types
To learn more about how other users can access and use the Checklist Module features, please refer to the guides linked below:

Admin & Staff

Ģ Click here to learn about the admin checklist dashboard , including how admin and staff view, filter, add, edit, archive, publish, and delete checklists.
Ģ Click here to learn how admin and staff use various checklist tools on the booking form.
Ģ Click here to learn how admin and staff access the "Checklist Progress" dashboard , including how to view live checklist updates, add notes, and send messages to the customer or provider(s).

Providers

Ģ Click here to learn how providers access checklists and use checklist features.

Customers

Ģ Click here to learn how customers access checklists and use checklist features.



Customer checklist access
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/customer-checklist-access

Customer checklist access
Learn how checklists work for customers, including how to view booking checklist(s) and send checklist notes to the provider(s), staff, and admin.

Last updated on 10 Aug, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you and your customers learn more about:
Ģ How to enable customer checklist permissions and settings
Ģ How customers view checklists from their dashboard
Ģ How to view job media uploaded to the checklist
Ģ How customers send checklist notes to the admin/staff

Getting Started
This article goes over how customers access and use features related to the Checklist Module. If you have not added or imported any customer accounts yet, or are not familiar with the Bookingkoala checklist features, please refer to the following guides:
Ģ Click here to learn more about customer accounts, including how to add a customer and edit a customer profile.
Ģ Click here for a general overview of the "Checklist Module" and how to get started.

Customer Checklist Access
Customers can view checklist(s), send checklist notes, and view job media uploaded to the checklist using their Customer Dashboard.

To access the customer dashboard, customers can log in from your website's "Login" page. Once logged in, they can select the "View Details" button for their next upcoming booking and click on the "Checklist" tab.

Customers can also access checklists for upcoming bookings using the "Edit / Reschedule" button for bookings under the "Appointments" tab in the main dashboard.

If a checklist was completed for a previous booking, customers can go to the "Previous Appointments" tab and click on the "View Details" button to access the "Checklist" tab.

For current and upcoming bookings, customers can take advantage of other checklist features like sending checklist notes to the merchant.

For current and completed bookings, customers can view job media added to the checklist as well as from the "Job Media" tab at the top of the booking page.

Customer Checklist Settings & Permissions
Like other sections of the software, the admin controls which checklist features customers can access. Customer access to checklists and related features is set up under the "Checklist Settings" section in the admin checklist dashboard.

To review the customer checklist settings for a particular checklist, please go to: Settings > General > Checklist

Once the dashboard has opened, select "Options" then "Edit" under the "Actions" column to open a specific checklist.

To view a checklist's settings, click on the "Settings" tab to the right of the "Builder" tab at the top of the Checklist Builder page.

By default, the "Settings" tab always directs to the "Settings" section located at the top of the left-side menu.

The second section from the top starts with the question "Would you like customers to be able to see the checklist?"

If you select "Yes" for this option, the rest of the permissions will be revealed below.

The customer's checklist settings and permissions in this section are summarized in the list below:

Ģ Should customers be able to see the checklist?
? Yes
? No
Ģ When will customers be able to see the checklist?
? Always display the checklist
? Only after it has been completed
Ģ Should customers be able to see the checklist progress bar?
? Yes
? No
Ģ Should customers be able to see who completed a task on the checklist?
? Yes
Ģ If yes:
? Show the name of the provider(s), team, staff, or admin
? Show the name of the business/company
? No
Ģ Should customers be able to see files and media added to the checklist?
? Yes
Ģ If yes: Media is displayed to customers based on the tags enabled in this section.
? No
Ģ Should customers be able to add notes to the checklist?
? Yes
Ģ If yes: Should customers be able to add notes for individual tasks/subtasks or should notes be added for the entire checklist?
? Individual tasks/subtasks
? All tasks/subtasks
? No
Ģ If the service is recurring, would you like to display this checklist for all bookings in the series?
? Yes
? No
Ģ If No:
? Display this checklist for the first [#] appointments.
? Display this checklist after [#] appointments.
Ģ Would you like to set up a default checklist note to display to customers?
? Yes
? No

Click here to view a detailed guide on how to set up and customize checklist settings.

How to View Checklists
When permission has been enabled, customers can view checklists, checklist progress, and job media, as well as send checklist notes to the admin and staff.

The customer can access the checklist by clicking the "View Details" button available on each booking. The customer will see the "Checklist" tab just next to the "Booking Details" tab. Upon clicking the "Checklist" tab, the customer can see all the tasks and subtasks.

If the admin has set a "default note" for customers, it will be displayed at the top of the page.

If permitted, customers can view the live checklist progress by monitoring the "checklist progress bar" near the top of the page as well as the checklist tasks and subtasks in the list below.

If permitted, customers can even see the name of the provider, merchant, staff member, or company name next to each completed task.

How to View Job Media
If permission is enabled, customers can also view "job media" (previously referred to as "job pictures") that have been uploaded to the checklist by the admin, staff, or provider(s).

Job media can be added to a subtask in the checklist, or it can be uploaded and viewed in the "Job Media" tab at the top of the page.

If the customer is allowed to see "Job Media" associated with specific tags, the tags will be displayed at the top of the page. "Job Media Tags" can be used to filter files uploaded to the "Job Media" tab.

Click here to learn more about how admin and staff set up job media tags for each checklist.

How to View & Send Checklist Notes
If permission is enabled, customers also have a "Notes" feature from which they can view and send chat-like messages from the checklist to the merchant.

The primary "Notes" section for the entire checklist is located at the top-right corner of the page.

If customers are allowed to add notes for individual tasks and/or subtasks, customers will see "Notes" buttons beneath the enabled tasks and/or subtasks.

Unread notes from the merchant will display a small red number icon on the corner of the "Notes" buttons.

Each note displays who added the note and what time it was sent. Customers can also edit or delete notes they have sent to the merchant.

Checklist Access for Other User Types
To learn more about how other users can access and use the Checklist Module features, please refer to the guides linked below:

Admin & Staff
Ģ Click here to learn how to set up staff permissions for the Checklist Module.
Ģ Click here to learn about the admin checklist dashboard, including how admin and staff view, filter, add, edit, archive, publish, and delete checklists.
Ģ Click here to learn how admin and staff use various checklist tools on the booking form.
Ģ Click here to learn how admin and staff access the "Checklist Progress" dashboard, including how to view live checklist updates, add notes, and send messages to the customer or provider(s).

Providers
Ģ Click here to learn how providers access checklists and use checklist features.



Export completed checklist(s)
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/export-completed-checklist-s

Export completed checklist(s)
Learn where to go to export the checklists you have created in BookingKoala.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Export completed checklist(s)

Exporting Completed Checklist(s)
In Bookingkoala, "Checklists" are interactive lists of duties associated with particular services or bookings. Providers, staff, and admin can use checklists to add media, log details, send notes, and complete tasks.

Should you want to export this or other checklists, you can do so through the Checklist Dashboard. To manage all of your business's checklists inside the Checklist Dashboard from the left-side menu in the admin dashboard under:

Settings > General > Checklist

Next, click on Options under the Actions column and select Export completed checklist(s).

This will open the Export completed checklist(s) page. Select a start and end date for the booking checklists you would like to export. Then, select one or more to all of fields you would like included in the file.

At the bottom right corner of the page, click the Export as email button and decide if you would like to Export all bookings together (into a single file) or Export each booking separately (into separate files per checklist).

Once you've made your selection, you will see a system notification at the top of the page confirming the checklist(s) export has been successful. Please allow up to 15 minutes for the export file(s) to arrive via email.



15. Marketing
Articles in this collection (28):

1187 Coupons
1188 Facebook share coupon
1189 Date & daily discounts
1190 Gift cards
1191 Add a discount bar
1192 Customer ratings & reviews
1193 Automated rating notifications
1194 Add, edit, or delete an internal rating/review
1195 Displaying BookingKoala reviews on your site
1196 Automatic reviews explained
1197 Campaign module overview
1198 How to create and edit audience lists
1199 How to manage audience lists inside campaigns
1200 Import all contacts for campaigns
1201 How to create a campaign form
1202 How to embed campaign forms
1203 How to create email templates for campaigns
1204 How to create SMS templates for campaigns
1205 How to create manual email campaigns
1206 How to create manual SMS campaigns
1207 How to create automated email campaigns
1208 How to create automated SMS campaigns
1209 User activity & campaign insights
1210 Blog overview
1211 Adding a new blog post
1212 Changing the author of a blog post
1213 Campaign notification settings
1214 UTM parameters and tracking URLs



Coupons
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/coupons

Coupons
Learn everything about coupons and how to add them to your store.

Last updated on 11 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn: 
Ģ What are coupons
Ģ How to create a coupon
Ģ How to set up the Facebook Share coupon
Ģ How to edit, deactivate, and reactivate coupons

What are coupons?
One of the many features that BookingKoala offers is the ability to create and offer your customers discounts via coupons. Coupons are special codes that your customer can apply to the discount section to receive a special promotional rate.  

Ģ Coupons can be set up to offer fixed-rate discounts, like $20 off, or percentage-based discounts, like 15% off. You can choose whether the discount will affect your provider's payment or not.
Ģ You can create coupons for specific industries or booking forms, and decide whether a coupon can be applied with gift cards and referral credits.
Ģ You can create coupons that only work for a certain frequency, like one-time services or recurring services. You can also make coupons that only work for specific days or dates, or keep a coupon active indefinitely.  
Ģ Coupons can be limited to new customers only or existing customers only. You can deactivate or reactivate a coupon at any time to discontinue or continue use with your customers.

The coupon section also contains an option to create a Facebook Share coupon. When enabled, customers can click a box on your booking form to share a custom post about your business.  After sharing, they will receive a coupon code that can be applied to their service.

Once you've created coupons, you can use them in campaigns to promote your business and nurture your customer base or post them on social media.  Coupons are a great way to track where your customers are coming from and influence your allocation of ads and social media activity.  

You can search for coupon activity in the Reports section by clicking on the blue "Go To Reports" button and then entering the coupon code into the filter option.

Create a Coupon
To create a new coupon,

Marketing > Coupons

Click the blue "Add New" button at the top right corner of the page.  

Start by creating a name for your coupon. This will be used to help identify the coupon. In the box below, enter the actual coupon code that your customers will type in to receive the promotion.  For example, this coupon's code is "FB20".  

Below, you can enter a description of the coupon. This is for your and your staff's reference only.

To make the coupon active and ready-to-use, check the box next to "Make this coupon active".  Check the box next to "Facebook coupon" to set this as your FacebookShare coupon. This is discussed in greater detail in the following section.

Under "Coupon can be applied with", check the boxes next to the other marketing tools that you'd like to allow this coupon to be applied alongside.  If you check box boxes, customers can use this coupon code in combination with gift cards and referral credits.  

Next, select the industry tab to decide which forms, locations, and service categories you'd like to allow this coupon to be used.  Click the green "Enabled" button to switch it to "Disabled" if you'd like to turn off a coupon for a specific form or industry.

Check the boxes next to the locations and service categories you'd like to enable the coupon for. Unchecked boxes will disable the coupon for that category.  

Discount
At the bottom of the page, select the "Discount" tab to set what discount your customers will receive when they apply this coupon.  You can change the discount type from fixed-rate ($) to percentage-based (%) by clicking the drop-down menu. 

If you would like for the discount to affect the provider's pay, click the read "Disabled" button to change it to "Enabled". Then, enter what amount their payment will be discounted by.

For example, if you want your provider's payment to receive the same discount as the customer, enter the same rate into both boxes.

Limitations
To set up your coupon's limitations, click on the "Limitations" tab.  

Begin by selecting a Start Date for the coupon. This will be the first day the coupon will be considered active.  If you'd like the coupon to expire, you can also select an End Date. If you leave this empty, the coupon will not expire.

Check the boxes beneath "Applicable on Following Days" to select which days of the week the coupon can be used.

If you'd like for the coupon to be used on a specific date(s), check the box next to "Use on specific Date" and then select the date below.  You can click the plus icon to add additional dates for the coupon.  

If you want to set up a maximum number of times the coupon can be used, enter a number greater than 0 into the box beneath "Max Usage".  Once the maximum has been met, this coupon will no longer be valid for further use.  If you do not want to set a max use, leave the box set to "0".

Check the box next to "Single-use per users" if you only want to allow each customer to use the coupon once. If checked, the system will use the customer's email address to distinguish one user from the other, only allowing one use per profile.

The next set of questions pertains to setting an order minimum and order maximum for the coupon. For the coupon to work, the customer's total must meet a certain minimum and/or maximum price.  

For example, if you set an order minimum of $50, the customer's service must be $50 or greater for this coupon to work. If you set an order maximum of $500, customers with services over $500 will not be eligible to receive a discount from this coupon.  

For the question below these boxes, select:

Yes - The minimums and/or maximums you set up will apply to bookings with manually adjusted prices under the Booking Adjustments section. 

For example, if you adjust a booking price to $49 because it is less than the minimum of $50, the customer will not be able to use this coupon.

No - The minimum and/or maximum you set up will NOT apply to bookings with manually adjusted prices.  

For example, if you have manually adjusted a booking price to $49, the customer will still be able to use the coupon, as the original service total was more than $50.  

Under "Applicable For", decide whether you'd like All Customers, New Customers Only, or Existing Customers Only to use this coupon.

Beneath "Frequencies", select whether you'd like the coupon to be applicable for one-time bookings, recurring bookings, or both.

If you checked the box next to "Recurring", decide if the coupon's promotion will be applied to all recurring bookings, the first booking only, or the next [#] bookings (up to 12).  

Then, answer the following questions:

Is the frequency discount also applicable with the coupon? 

Select "Yes" to allow a frequency discount and the coupon's discount to affect the customer's total price.

Next, select an answer for, "Is coupon settings prioritized over frequency cancellation settings?

Select "Yes" to prioritize the coupon's cancelation settings over the frequency's cancelation settings when it comes to charging the customer a difference in balance.  

Select "No" to prioritize the system's frequency settings when it comes to charging the customer a difference in balance upon cancelation.  

Select "No" to disable the customer's frequency discount when applying this coupon.  

If you selected "No" to this question, decide if you want to charge the full price of the service if it is canceled after the first appointment.

Select "Yes" to charge the customer the difference between the one-time rate and the discounted rate if they cancel after only one service.

Select "No" to let the customer keep the coupon discount even if they cancel after only one appointment.

Charge full price if service is canceled after the first appointment?

If you selected "Yes" to the previous question, you have an option to set how many appointments the customer must have to retain their recurring coupon deal.
For example, the customer must complete at least two bookings to retain the promotion received from this coupon.

Does the customer need to pre-pay when booking a recurring service to get this deal?

Select "Yes" to set how many bookings they must prepay for to receive this promotion. 

Select "No" so customers do not need to pre-pay to receive the promotion.  

Do you want to show a message to a customer when a coupon is removed due to a modification to a booking? 

Select "Yes" to show a pop-up message to let the customer know their coupon has been removed due to a selection they've made on the booking form. This will occur if the customer makes a choice that is not permitted without the coupon's settings.

Select "No" to hide any pop-up messages from showing. A customer may not notice that a coupon has been removed from the form if they've made different selections that warranted the removal of the code.  

Advanced Settings
If you are a Premium Subscriber, you will have access to an Advanced Settings tab at the bottom of the "Add New Coupon" page.  

This allows you to generate a coupon link and/or set up a discount bar on your booking page that contains the coupon code.  Click here to read more about how to set up a discount bar on your booking page.  

A coupon link is a link to your booking page that contains the coupon you have just created. To generate the link, click the blue "Add Coupon & Generate Link" button.  

A link will be generated for all of the industries and booking forms you have enabled.  You can copy the link by clicking the blue "Copy URL" button.

From here, you can share the link with customers directly, add it to your marketing emails, or embed the link in a button on your site for a special promotion.  

Remember to Save
Once you have finished making your selections for the coupon settings, click the blue "Add Coupon" button at the bottom of the page.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know that the coupon has been saved successfully.  You will be redirected back to your Coupons page.  

If the coupon you saved is active, it will appear in the "Active Coupons" tab in the top left corner of the page.

Coupons that are drafts or that have been deactivated are located in the "Inactive Coupons" tab to the right of it.  

Set Up the Facebook Share Coupon
Click here to view our guide on how to set up the Facebook share coupon.

Edit, Deactivate, and Reactivate Coupons
To make any changes to an existing coupon, you will always go to:

Marketing > Coupons

To edit a coupon, click on "Options", "Edit" to open the "Edit Coupon" page.

Be sure to click the blue "Update Coupon" button if you make any changes to the coupon's settings.

To deactivate a coupon, click on "Options", then "Deactivate".

A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to deactivate this coupon. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

If you navigate to the "Inactive Coupons" tab at the top of the page, you'll now see your recently deactivated coupon listed below.

To reactivate a coupon, click on "Options", "Activate". A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to activate this coupon again. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.  

You can also delete coupons from the "Inactivate Coupons" tab by selecting "Options", "Delete", however, this will permanently remove the coupon and all associated data from your Reports section.

Please be sure to do this only if you are sure you do not want to see any data about this coupon again.



Facebook share coupon
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/facebook-share-coupon

Facebook share coupon
Learn about how the "Facebook Share" coupon works and how to set it up.

Last updated on 15 Aug, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is the "Facebook Share" coupon
Ģ How to set up the Facebook Share coupon

Please note: Facebook is no longer promoting or encouraging sharing that incentivizes or gives any rewards, and they have also stopped the support for the existing Facebook coupon sharing feature, hence this feature is not working and we will be removing this feature from our platform shortly.

We recommend hiding this section on the booking form from the website builder by going to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize Theme

From here, click on the top center Page menu and go to the Book Now page. Scroll down to the Facebook Coupon, click on it, and a "Hide" button will appear. Click "Hide" and then "Save & Publish" to update your booking page.

What is the Facebook Share Coupon?
One of the many features that BookingKoala offers is the ability to create and offer discounts to your customers via coupons. This is located in your main dashboard under: Marketing > Coupons

The coupon section contains an option to create a Facebook Share coupon. When enabled, customers can click a box on your booking form to share a custom post about your business. After sharing, they will receive a coupon code that can be applied to their service.

Before Your Begin
Before you begin setting up the Facebook Share coupon, you will need to make sure you have connected your Facebook account in the Apps & Integrations section.

Click here for instructions on how to set up your Facebook API.

Enable the Facebook Share Coupon
To set up your Facebook Share coupon, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Customer tab.

Then scroll down and click on the "Facebook" section to expand it.

Check the box next to "Would you like to enable the Facebook share coupon?"

Below, select where you could like the coupon to be published.
Ģ Customer frontend - Only new customers on the front-end booking page will be able to see this promotion.
Ģ Customer backend - Only existing customers who are logged into their dashboard will be able to see this on the booking page.
Ģ Both - Both new and existing customers can see the Facebook share coupon.

Then, enter the pop-up message you would like to show when the customer clicks the coupon box.

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.

Create a Facebook Share Coupon
Next, you must create a corresponding coupon in the Coupon section. Go to: Marketing > Coupons > Add New

On the "Add New Coupon" page, check the box next to "Facebook Coupon".

Then, you can customize whichever services the coupon can be applied to in the section below. Click here to view a detailed guide on how to create a coupon.

At the bottom of the page, set the discount amount, whether it will be a fixed amount ($) or percentage-based (%), and then click the "Add Coupon" button to save it.

Set the Facebook Share Image
Once your coupon has been saved, you can upload a custom image that will be shared by your customer. To do this, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.

Next, click on the white "Settings" option from the top menu.

A menu will appear on the left side of the screen. You will be under the "General" Tab. Just below where it says "Facebook Share Image", click the icon to add an image from your device.

Once you've selected which image you'd like to use, click the green "Upload image" button. Then, select the newly uploaded image from the Gallery and click the blue "Select" button.

To save the Facebook Share image to your site, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the left-side menu.

To push the updates live, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page.

Your Facebook Share coupon is now active and ready to be used by your customers!



Date & daily discounts
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/daily-discounts

Date & daily discounts
Learn what daily and date discounts are and how to set them up in your store.

Last updated on 13 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are daily and date discounts
Ģ Why use daily and date discounts
Ģ How to set up daily discounts
Ģ How to set up date discounts
Ģ How to reset your discounts back to the default

What are the benefits of using daily/date discounts?
Date and daily discounts are a powerful marketing strategy that leverages time-sensitive offers to drive sales and create a sense of urgency among customers. You can boost engagement, increase conversions, and drive revenue by strategically incorporating dates and deadlines into your discount promotions.

Highlighting the limited availability of a discount triggers the fear of missing out (FOMO) and motivates customers to act quickly. Employ specific dates and deadlines to create a sense of scarcity and encourage immediate purchase decisions. This could involve daily deals, weekend specials, or limited-time flash sales. Tie your discounts to relevant dates like holidays, seasonal events, or specific days of the week. This can help you target specific customer segments and capitalize on seasonal trends as well.

Overview
The daily discounts feature gives you the ability to give discounts to your customers on days that are slower so you better manage and balance your weekly schedule. You can set either a fixed discount, like $25 off, or you can do a percentage-based discount, like 15% off.

For example, let's say your busiest days are Thursday through Sunday, while Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays are noticeably slower. To drive more customers to book on your slower days, you can set up daily discounts to entice customers to book these spots instead.

There are two different ways of setting up daily discounts.
Ģ "Daily discounts" are based on the day of the week.
Ģ "Date discounts" are based on a specific date.

Date discounts can be used to set up special promotions on a specific date, for example, retail holidays like Black Friday or Cyber Monday.

If you have multiple industries, you can even set up different discounts depending on which industries you are trying to drive more traffic to.

Set Up Daily Discounts
To set up daily discounts, please go to: Marketing > Daily Discounts

You will land on the "Day Discounts" tab.

Next, select the Industry Name (if you have multiple industries) you'd like to set up discounts for from the Industry drop-down menu. If you have multiple locations, you can also select a specific location from the Location drop-down menu, or select "Default" to set up daily discounts for all locations.

Next, click on the tab with the day of the week you want to place discounts for.

Below the "Service Categories" section, check the boxes for which service categories you would like to enable the discount or check the topmost "All" box to select all categories.

Under the "Booking Count" section, use the slider to select how many bookings need to be on the schedule before the daily discount is hidden.
For example, if you select "10" on the slider, this means that the daily discount will only be offered to your customers until you reach 10 total bookings for that day/spot.

In the bottom section, "Spot Discount", you can set up the exact discounts you'd like to offer.
To set up discounts per booking spot, select "Per Booking Spot" at the top of this section and then enter the Discount Amount and Type into the boxes on the right.

You can also use the "Apply Discount" option to apply the discount to all booking spots for that day.

You can place text in the "Description" box to let your customers know they are receiving a discounted rate for this booking spot.

If you'd like to set up daily discounts per day instead of per booking spot, select "Per Day" at the top of this section and then use the slider to select which booking spots will be eligible.

Then, enter your Discount Amount and Type in the boxes at the bottom. The "per day" option allows you to set a total number of discounted booking spots that can be used anywhere in the range you set up.

Once you've finished setting up your day discounts, be sure to click the blue "Save Changes" button at the top right corner of the page.

Once saved, you can easily copy your daily discount settings from one day of the week to another by using the "Apply To" option in the top right corner of the page.

Set Up Date Discounts
To set up date discounts, please go to: Marketing > Daily Discounts

You will land on the "Day Discounts" tab. Click on the "Date Discounts" tab just to the left of it at the top of the page.

Next, select the Industry Name (if you have multiple industries) you'd like to set up discounts for from the Industry drop-down menu. If you have multiple locations, you can also select a specific location from the Location drop-down menu, or select "Default" to set up daily discounts for all locations.

Next, click on the date in the calendar you'd like to apply a date discount for. This will open the "Date Discount" pop-up.

In the pop-up, you can select which Industries will be included in this date discount. You can also set the discount for a single date or a date range.

Check the boxes next to the Locations and Service Categories you'd like to enable the date discount for.

If you have enabled multiple locations, click the tabs with your place name to switch between settings for each location.

Once you are done setting up your date discount, click the blue "Add" button at the bottom right corner of the page.

You will see a green system notification in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know your discount has been updated successfully.

Reset Your Daily/Date Discounts
If you'd ever like to reset your daily discounts back to the system default, please go to: Marketing > Daily Discounts

Click on the red "Restore To Default" Button at the top center of the page.

A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to remove all daily and date discounts you've set up and reset this section to the system default. If you are certain, click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner, letting you know the daily discounts have been removed successfully.



Gift cards
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/gift-cards

Gift cards
Learn everything about gift cards including how to send a gift card, where to view your gift card balances, and how to import custom gift card images.

Last updated on 25 Nov, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are gift cards
Ģ Set up your gift card settings
Ģ How to add custom images for gift cards
Ģ How to send a gift card to a customer
Ģ Where to view and manage existing gift cards

Before Your Begin
In order to sell gift cards from your BookingKoala site, you must have a Growing or Premiumsubscription.
Next, you must connect your account to apayment processor like Stripe, Square, or PayPal.

Gift Cards
One of the great marketing features included with the Growing and Premium subscription is the ability to sell your customers virtual gift cards. Once you've connected your payment processor, customers can visit your "Gift Card" page and fill out the form to send a gift card to friends and family members.

Staff and admin can create gift cards from their BookingKoala dashboard as well, so you can fill out the form on behalf of a customer. You can choose to set a minimum for your gift cards or allow customers to purchase a gift card for any amount. You also have the option to allow customers to edit their gift cards so they can reload the balance.

Your BookingKoala account comes with several pre-loaded gift card images that your customers can pick from when purchasing a gift card. You can use these or upload your own custom gift card images.

Once a gift card has been purchased, the system will automatically track all purchases made with the gift card under the "Gift Cards" page under the "Marketing" tab.

Gift Card Settings
To set up your gift card minimum, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options At the top of the page, click on the Admin tab.

Under the "Settings" section, enter the minimum gift card amount into the box below.
Below this box, there is an additional question,"Are you able to edit a gift card to have a total less than its minimum requirement?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to allow dynamic gift cards. The admin will be able to create gift cards that are less than the minimum you set above. Customers will be able to edit gift card details like the name, balance, or message, but still must meet the minimum balance requirement.
Ģ Select "No" to disable this option. Admin must also meet the gift card minimum, and customers will not be able to edit their gift card once it has been created.

Next, decide if you would like to apply a gift card maximum by answering "Enable the maximum gift card amount limit?"
Ģ Select "Yes" to enter a maximum amount for your gift card purchases. Customers will NOT be able to purchase a gift card that exceeds this amount.
Ģ Select "No" to disable the maximum gift card amount limit.

Then, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of this section.

Next, click on the "Customer" tab at the top of the page.
Scroll down to the "General" section and click the "+" icon to expand it.
Towards the bottom of this section, locate the question, "Which of these options would you like to allow customers to download invoices for?"
Ģ If you would like to allow your customers to download an invoice for their gift card purchase, check the box next to "Gift Card".

Next, select an option for, "Would you like to allow your customers to update gift cards inside their account?"
Ģ Select "Yes" if you would like a customer to be able to edit their name and reload the balance of their gift card.
Ģ Select "No" to disable editing gift cards from the customer end. Only the admin will be able to make changes to a gift card.

Finally, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page to update your store settings.

Add Gift Card Images
If you'd like to view the gift card images that come with your account, please go to: Marketing > Gift Cards > Gift Card Gallery

This is also the place where you can upload your own custom gift card images. To do so, click the white "Upload gift card image" button at the top center of the page.

You can also delete a gift card image by clicking the white "Delete" button in the top right corner of the gift card. A pop-up will appear, asking if you are sure you want to delete this image. Click the blue "Yes" button if you are sure you do not want to use this image again.
A green system notification will appear in the top right corner, letting you know that the image has been deleted successfully.

Send a Gift Card to a Customer
To generate a new gift card for a customer, go to: Marketing > Gift Cards > Send Gift Card

This will bring you to the "Send Gift Card" page. From here, you can fill out the form on the behalf of a customer.
Click "Upload" to upload a new gift card image, or click the blue "Choose From Gallery" button to pick an image from your gift card gallery.

Next, enter the amount, sender first name, sender last name, sender email address, recipient name, and recipient email.
Thesender must provide a first name, last name, and email address because a customer account will be created for them upon sending out the gift card. The customer account will be linked to the payment ID generated by the purchase, and they will now be able to log into your site to book or send more gift cards in the future.

Next, enter the messageyou would like to be shared with the recipient.
On the right side of the screen, you will see a preview of what the message will look like.

At the bottom of the page, you can select "Send it now" to send the gift card as soon as you click "Send", or "Sent it on a specific date/time" to set when it will be sent out.
If you would like to send an amount less than the required gift card minimum, check the box next to "Exclude minimum amount validation".

Lastly, enter the customer's credit card information into the "Payment Information" section at the bottom. The admin will have the option to select "Cash/Check".
To save and send/queue the gift card, click the blue "Send" button at the bottom of the page.
Once the gift card has been sent, you will see a green system notification at the top right corner of the page letting you know that the gift card has been saved successfully. Then, you will be redirected to the "Gift Cards" page.

Manage Your Gift Cards
Once a gift card has been purchased/sent, you can view it under: Marketing > Gift Cards > Gift Cards

Here, you can view a list of all of the gift cards you have sold.
1215 The date the gift card was purchased.
1216 The sender's name and email address.
1217 The receiver's name and email address.
1218 The gift card code. This code is entered into the "Gift Card" box on the booking form to redeem the gift card.
1219 The form of payment used to purchase the gift card.
1220 The total spent with the gift card.
1221 The original balance of the gift card.
1222 The action column contains options to View the gift card (if it has been used), or Edit / Delete / Resend it if it has not been redeemed yet.

If the recipient has not received a gift card, you can click on "Options", then "Edit" to open the gift card and verify that the receiver's email address is correct. This is important, as this email address is used to validate the gift card when the recipient books.
If you need to make changes to correct the email address, click the blue "Update" button to update the gift card.
You can then click "Options", then "Resend" to send the gift card out again.

If you want to delete a gift card, click "Options", then "Delete". A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to delete this gift card. Once you do, the customer will no longer be able to use this code to redeem the gift card.
If you are sure, click "Yes" to proceed. You will see a green system notification letting you know the gift card has been deleted.

Redeem a Gift Card
To redeem a gift card from the admin dashboard, begin by clicking the blue "Add Booking" button at the top of the left-side menu and filling out the booking information for the customer.
You must use the email address that the gift card was sent to when entering the customer's information. This will allow the system to validate the gift card and allow you to apply it to the customer's total. If you do not enter the correct email, you will see this message when you try to redeem the code.

Next, scroll down towards the bottom of the form, until you see the "Coupon Code" and "Gift Card" tabs. Click on "Gift Cards".
Paste the coupon code exactly as it is written into the "Enter Coupon Code" box, and then click the blue "Apply" button.
If you do not use the correct email, you will see an error message when you try to redeem it.

Once a gift card has been applied, the Payment Summarybox will be updated to reflect the gift card discount.
You can add another payment method on file under the "Payment Information" if the gift card doesn't cover the total balance.
Once you are finished entering the booking information, click the green "Save Booking" button to schedule the service.



Add a discount bar
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/set-up-a-discount-bar

Add a discount bar
Learn how a discount bar works and how to add one to your booking form.

Last updated on 11 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is a discount bar
Ģ How a discount bar helps with conversions
Ģ How to generate links with a discount bar
Ģ How to add a discount bar in the website builder

What is a discount bar?
A discount bar is a section that can be inserted at the top of your webpage to promote a special promotion or coupon. This feature is only available for Premium Subscribers.

You can set up the discount bar to include a simple message or add a countdown clock to entice your customers further to take advantage of your promotion.

Why use a discount bar?
By creating a sense of urgency and scarcity, countdown bars can directly boost sales and revenue. The psychological impact of the ticking clock motivates customers to make purchases, leading to increased sales figures.

A discount bar, especially with a countdown timer, triggers a fear of missing out (FOMO) on a good deal or special promotion. This psychological trigger motivates people to make a purchase or take action before it's too late. Countdown timers create a sense of urgency and scarcity, making the offer or event seem more valuable and desirable. The ticking clock emphasizes that time is limited, pushing customers to act quickly. By leveraging FOMO and scarcity, countdown bars can significantly increase conversion rates. Customers are more likely to make a purchase when they feel a sense of urgency and pressure to act fast.

Countdown bars can draw attention to specific promotions or events, leading to increased engagement with your marketing efforts. The visual timer acts as a compelling call to action, encouraging customers to interact with your content. When used effectively, discount bars can enhance the user experience by providing clear information about time-sensitive deals or events. This transparency and clear communication can build trust and improve customer satisfaction.

Discount bars are versatile and can be used for a wide range of promotions, including flash sales, early bird discounts, product or service launches, limited-time offers, holiday deals, and more.

How to Add a Discount Bar
The discount bar can be set up in two different ways:
1223 Generate a booking link with a discount bar for a new or existing coupon
1224 Add a custom discount bar to a page on the website and theme builder

If you generate a link with a discount bar, you can then share that link in marketing emails, embed it as a button on your web page, or share it on social media with your customers.

If you use the website builder, you can add the discount bar to any page on your website.

Add a Discount Bar for a New or Existing Coupon
One way to set up the discount bar is by generating booking links. You can use these special links to share in campaign emails or messages to offer a special promotion directly through the booking form.

You can set up the discount bar under the "Advanced Settings" tab at the bottom of the "Add New Coupon" page under: Marketing > Coupons

To generate a discount bar link for an existing coupon, select "Options", "Edit" next to the coupon you'd like to create a discount bar for.

To create a new coupon with a discount bar, click the blue "Add New" button in the top right corner of the page.

Scroll down to the bottom of the page until you see the "Discount" and "Limitations" tabs. The "Advanced Settings" tab will be located on the right.

This option allows you to set up the discount bar on your booking page that contains this coupon code. Select "Yes" to enable the discount bar feature for your coupon.

This bar can come in the form of a countdown clock or text. Use the text box below to enter the message your customers will see when the bar appears.

Preview what the discount bar will look like in the section below.

Click the blue "Settings" button to pick the layout of the discount bar.

Click on the green "Design Settings" button to change the font size, color, and appearance of the discount bar.

Click on the orange "Mobile Preview" button to view what the discount bar will look like on mobile devices.

Below the Preview box, there are additional questions on how the discount bar will function. These options will depend on whether you have selected to set up a countdown clock or text bar.

Countdown Clock Settings

When will the countdown expire? Select either "On a specific day" to set when the discount bar will expire, or "After a specific time on the page" for it to expire after the user has been on the page for a certain length of time.

What happens when the clock expires and the user is still on the page? You can either "Redirect to a new page" and provide a URL for the page you'd like to redirect to, or you can select "Section goes away" to hide the bar from the customer once the countdown expires.

What happens when a user visits the link after the clock has expired? Decide what you'd like users to experience if they visit the link after the clock has expired. Select "Cookie them and redirect to a different page" to supply a different URL to redirect the user to. Select "Cookie them and keep section hidden" to let the user stay on the same page, but keep the discount bar hidden.

Select how long you would like the user to be "cookied" using the boxes.

General Discount Bar Settings

The following settings pertain to both countdown clock-style bars as well as plain-text discount bars.

Where on the desktop should we display the text? Select "Top Bar" to display the bar at the top of the page, or select "On Summary" to display the discount bar in a box above the Booking Summary section.

Design mobile countdown clock style For mobile browsers, select either "Top Bar" or "On Summary" to decide whether the discount bar will display.

Do you want to show "Terms of Deal"? Select "Yes" to include a "Terms of Deal" link in your discount bar. This can be clicked by the customer to see more information about your promotion. Selection "No" to hide the "Terms of Deal" link.

If you selected "Yes" to this question, you can set a Label and enter Content in the boxes below.

Grab Share Link(s) At the bottom of the page, click the blue "Generate Link" button to generate the link with the discount bar on your booking page. A separate link will be generated for each industry and booking form that you have enabled in the earlier settings.

Double-click the URL in the box, or click the blue "Copy URL" button to copy the link.

From here, you can do things like:
Ģ Share the link with a customer via email or SMS
Ģ Add the link to a text or email campaign
Ģ Embed the link in a "Book Now" button on your website

To save the coupon's discount bar settings, be sure to click the blue "Update/Save Coupon" button at the bottom of the page after generating your links. This will ensure that the links will remain active (or however you set it up under the coupon's settings section).

A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner of the page, letting you know that the coupon has been saved/updated successfully.

Once the discount bar settings have been saved, you can also select this coupon when adding a discount bar to the BookingKoala website builder. The process for setting up a discount bar in the BookingKoala website builder is detailed in the next section.

Add a Discount Bar Using the Website Builder
Another way to incorporate a discount bar into your site is by utilizing the website and theme builder. To begin, go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.

At the top center of the page, click the "Page" menu and select which page you'd like to add a discount bar. Close the "Pages" menu that appears on the left of the screen.

Hover your cursor above the header in this section until you see a blue "Add Section" button appear. Click the "Add Section" button and a menu will appear on the left side of the screen.

Scroll down until you see the "Discount Bar" section on the menu. Hover over the block until it says "Add This Section" and then click to add it to your page.

Once you've added the discount bar to your page, hover over it and click "Edit" in the top left corner of the block to set up the settings.

There are two different ways to proceed with setting up your discount bar. At the top of the Settings pop-up, select "Set custom" or "Pick from coupons".
Ģ If you proceed with "Set custom", you can set up a custom discount bar using the website builder and add any coupon link to the "Book Now" button.
Ģ If you proceed with "Pick from coupons", you can select a coupon that already has a discount bar set up and the system will automatically pull those settings from the coupon section.

Set a Custom Discount Under "Bar Settings", select "Set Custom" to create a custom discount bar. Scroll down and answer the same settings questions as detailed above to set up your discount bar.

Click the blue "Bar Settings" and "Clock Settings" buttons to pick the layout for your discount bar.

Next, link the coupon you would like to offer to the discount bar. Click "Link" next to "Button Label" and paste the URL of the coupon into the box.

Scroll to the bottom of the pop-up and expand the "Style Settings" section to change the colors and fonts in the discount bar.

Once you are finished making your selections, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page to push your updates live.

Pick From Coupons You can also click "Pick from Coupons" to use a coupon you have already set up in the "Coupons" section under Marketing.

Once you've selected a coupon you'd like to use, select which form they will land on when they click the "Book Now" button.

Once you are finished making your selections, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page to push your updates live.



Customer ratings & reviews
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/ratings

Customer ratings & reviews
Learn how to set up and use the customer rating and review system.

Last updated on 24 Jun, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where to view your customer ratings
Ģ How ratings are collected
Ģ How to enable the automatic rating notifications
Ģ How to rate, edit, or reset a rating or review for a customer

Customer Ratings
To better help you track your business's quality of service, BookingKoala contains an internal rating system to collect customer feedback.

Each rating contributes to a provider/team's average rating. This average rating is displayed below the provider's name almost everywhere in the system.

BookingKoala also offers several features to help get your internal ratings out to the public eye.

One way is to display the "Live Reviews" section on your website. Click here to learn how to display internal reviews on your booking form or add them to another page in the website builder.

Another option is to set up the automatic reviews feature to display links to external review sites when the customer leaves a good rating. Click here to learn how to set up the automatic reviews feature.

How do I enable customer ratings?
To set up your customer rating and review preferences, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options > Customer tab > Bookings section

Scroll down until you see the question, ōWould you like to allow your customers to rate your service?ö.

Ģ Select ōYesö to allow your customers to rate some or all of your services.
Ģ Select ōNoö if you do not want to allow customers to rate any services.

If you have selected ōYesö for this question, you will see options to enable the industries customers are allowed to rate. Use the ōAllö option to select all industries, or check the box next to each industry name to enable reviews for the selected industries.

If you have selected ōNoö for this setting to disable customer ratings and reviews, you will see a note explaining the implications of this selection:

NOTE: This option will affect the following areas:
Ģ The customer will not be able to rate the service of a previous appointment.
Ģ The rating and review popup will not be displayed on the customer dashboard.
Ģ Any email and SMS notifications from the ōRating & Reviewö section under Settings > Notifications > Email/SMS > Customer tab > Rating & Review will not be sent to customers, even if they are enabled in this section.

Automatic Rating Notifications
Click here to learn how to set up automatic rating notifications for customers.

Once enabled, customers will receive an email and/or SMS message asking them to provide feedback on their recently completed booking.

Where to View New Ratings & Reviews
To view all of your customer ratings and reviews in one section, please go to: Marketing > Ratings

At the top of the page, you can use the filters to look for ratings by industry, location, and date. You can also search by name, email, or phone number.

Below, you will see a list of the ratings that have been submitted by your clients.

You can also view ratings for a specific provider or team by visiting their dashboard. Click on the "Reviews" tab at the top of the page to view a list of all ratings for this provider.

To view comments left by the customer, hover your cursor over the orange note icon under the "Review" column.

How To Get/Add Ratings from Customers
Ratings can be collected in several different ways.

1225 If you have enabled automatic rating notifications, customers will receive an email after their service has been completed with a link to rate their service. Once they click the link, they will be redirected to a page where can leave a rating without having to log in.
1226 Whenever a customer signs into their dashboard after a booking has been completed, a feedback pop-up will display. The customer can proceed with leaving a rating and comment, or click "Maybe Later" if they do not want to leave a rating at the moment.
You can also enable theautomatic review feature to display after the pop-up if the customer leaves a good rating. Click here to learn how to set up the feedback pop-up to convert internal reviews into external reviews.
1227 Admin and staff can add ratings on behalf of customers under any "Job History" section in the admin dashboard when in "List View".
1228 Providers can collect feedback on behalf of the customer if the provider feedback feature is enabled. When enabled, providers can go to the Job Details page for a job, click the Feedback button, and then leave a rating and review on the following screen. Click here to learn where to activate the provider feedback feature.

Rate a Service for a Customer
Click here to learn how admin and staff can manage ratings and reviews left by customers.



Automated rating notifications
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/automatic-rating-notifications

Automated rating notifications
Learn how to set up automated notifications to remind your customers to rate their service.

Last updated on 26 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to enable the automatic rating notifications
Ģ How to edit the automatic rating notifications

Before You Begin
If you would like to enable automatic rating notifications, please be sure you have first set up and verified your email and SMS notification settings.
Ģ Click here to learn how to set up Email notifications.
Ģ Click here to learn how to set up SMS notifications.

Automatic Rating Notifications
One of the ways you can encourage your customers to leave feedback about the service is by enabling the "Rate Us" notification.
When enabled, customers will receive an email or SMS message after the service has been completed with a link to rate their service.

The notifications section also contains five additional templates based on customer ratings.
When enabled, these follow-up notifications are sent to the customer based on how many stars they rated the service.

Email Notifications
To enable the rating email for customers, please go to: Settings > Notifications > Emails

1229 Click on the "Customer" tab at the top of the page. Check that the toggle button next to "Email Notifications" is set to "Enabled" as well.
1230 Scroll down until you see the "Rating & Review" section. Click the plus sign icon to expand it.
1231 If the button next to the "Rate Us" email is green and says "Enabled", your automated email notifications are turned on and ready to go!
1232 If the button says "Disabled", click it once to enable the notification.
1233 Click the grey "Schedule Email" button to set when you would like the notification to be sent out. By default, the email will be sent out just after the booking is completed. For example, if a 3-hour service is scheduled at 8 AM, the system will send out the notification just after 11 AM.
1234 You can select to delay the notification by up to 24 hours after the service has been completed. Click the blue "Save" button to update the notification schedule.
1235 If you would like to enable any of the rating follow-up notifications, please switch the toggle button(s) to "Enabled".
1236 To view/edit the content for each notification, click the pencil icon/"Edit" to the right of the description.

The follow-up notifications are:
Ģ 50% off your service (happy rating ot v1)
? This notification offers a one-time customer a 50% off coupon towards recurring services if they left a rating of 4 out of 5 stars or higher.
? To utilize this template, you must create a corresponding coupon in the Coupons section. Click here to learn how to create a new coupon.
Ģ Happy rating (ot v2)
? This notification is sent to one-time customers if they have left a rating of 4 out of 5 stars or higher.
Ģ Happy rating (rec)
? This notification is sent to recurring customers if they have left a rating of 4 out of 5 stars or higher.
Ģ Average rating
? This notification is sent to any customer who leaves a rating of 3.0 or 3.5 out of 5 stars.
Ģ Poor rating
? This notification is sent to any customer who leaves a rating of 2.5 or lower out of 5 stars.

SMS Notifications
To enable your rating SMS notification for customers, please go to: Settings > Notifications > SMS

1237 Click on the "Customer" tab at the top of the page. Check that the toggle button next to "SMS Notifications" is set to "Enabled" as well.
1238 Scroll down until you see the "Rating & Review" section. Click the plus sign icon to expand it.
1239 If the button next to the "Rate Us" email is green and says "Enabled", your automated email notifications are turned on and ready to go!
1240 If the button says "Disabled", click it once to enable the notification.
1241 If you would like to enable any of the rating follow-up notifications, please switch the toggle button(s) to "Enabled".
1242 To view/edit the content for each notification, click the pencil icon/"Edit" to the right of the description.

The follow-up notifications are:
Ģ 50% off your service (happy rating ot v1)
? This notification offers a one-time customer a 50% off coupon towards recurring services if they left a rating of 4 out of 5 stars or higher.
? To utilize this template, you must create a corresponding coupon in the Coupons section. Click here to learn how to create a new coupon.
Ģ Happy rating (ot v2)
? This notification is sent to one-time customers if they have left a rating of 4 out of 5 stars or higher.
Ģ Happy rating (rec)
? This notification is sent to recurring customers if they have left a rating of 4 out of 5 stars or higher.
Ģ Average rating
? This notification is sent to any customer who leaves a rating of 3.0 or 3.5 out of 5 stars.
Ģ Poor rating
? This notification is sent to any customer who leaves a rating of 2.5 or lower out of 5 stars.



Add, edit, or delete an internal rating/review
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/add-edit-or-reset-a-rating-review

Add, edit, or delete an internal rating/review
Learn how admin and staff can manage internal ratings, including how to add, edit, or delete a customer's rating and review.

Last updated on 30 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to rate a booking for a customer
Ģ How to edit or reset a rating

Add a New Rating
Admin and staff have the ability to rate a service on behalf of a customer. Ratings can be left anywhere in the system that shows the completed booking in the list view, including:
Ģ The "Job History" section under "Bookings"
Ģ The "Job History" section under the provider's dashboard
Ģ The "Job History" section under the customer's dashboard

If you have the calendar view set as your default view for bookings, you can easily switch to the list view by clicking the list view button at the top right corner of the page.

You can also locate this button just below the provider or customer's basic information while on their dashboard.

To leave a rating, hover your cursor over the stars icons and click to select a rating out of 5. The system allows half-star ratings as well.

A "Rating & Review" pop-up window will appear. Enter any written feedback into the text box below.

If you have enabled automatic rating follow-up notifications for your customers, you can check the box next to "Exclude notification from being sent" if you do not want the customer to receive a notification.

Once you are finished, click the blue "Save" button to save the rating for the booking. A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner letting you know the rating has been added successfully.

Edit or Delete a Customer Rating
Customer ratings can be edited or deleted, even if they were not left by the admin or staff. To do this, please go to:

Marketing > Ratings

Search the customer or provider's name in the search bar at the top of the page, or scroll down the list until you have located the review.

Edit a Rating
To edit a rating, click "Options" below the "Actions" column and select "Edit".

The "Rating & Review" pop-up will display on the screen. Use your cursor to change the star rating, or edit the test in the "Reviews" box.

Once finished, click the blue "Save" button to update the rating. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the rating has been updated.

Delete a Rating
To reset a rating, click "Options" below the "Actions" column and select "Reset".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to reset this rating. To proceed, click the blue "Yes" button.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the review has been deleted. You, the customer, and the provider will no longer be able to see this rating under the "Job History" section unless the customer or admin leaves a new rating.



Displaying BookingKoala reviews on your site
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/displaying-reviews-on-your-site

Displaying BookingKoala reviews on your site
Learn more about reviews and how to display them on your site for better conversions.

Last updated on 29 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Enable live reviews to display on your site

What are Live Reviews?
One of the great features BookingKoala has to offer is the ability to display your internal reviews anywhere you'd like on your website.
You can even display these live reviews on the booking page to show customers how great your service is.
You can set a threshold of how high a rating a customer must leave in order for it to be displayed in the element. This allows you to ensure that only the best reviews you receive are displayed to prospective customers. You can also control how much of the customer's personal information is displayed to protect the privacy of your existing clients.

To enable live reviews for your site, please go to: Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Customertab.
Open the "Bookings" section by clicking the plus sign icon to expand it.
Then, scroll down until you see the question, "Would you like to increase conversions by showing live reviews?" and select "Yes".

Next, decide if you would like to show Allreviews or just reviews above a certain threshold.
For example, if you select "4.0", only reviews that received a rating of 4.0 or higher will be displayed.

Next, select an option for if/how much of that customer's name will display under the review.
Ģ Full customer name - The customer's full first and last name will be displayed below the review. For example, John Smith.
Ģ First name + Last initial - The customer's first name and the first initial of their last name will be displayed. For example, John S.
Ģ No name - No customer name will be displayed below the review.

Once you have made your selections, scroll to the bottom of the page and click the blue "Save" button.

You will now see that the live reviews section has appeared on the Home, Book Now, and Lead Form pages of your website.

How to Edit the Live Reviews
The reviews you see in the live reviews feature come directly from the ratingsleft by customers in your system.
When you first sign up for BookingKoala, your account will include severaltest bookings with customer ratings.

If you would like to edit the reviews, please go to: Marketing > Ratings

This will bring you to the "Feedback" page.
To edit a review, select "Options" and click "Edit".
A pop-up window will appear where you can edit thestar rating and review left by the customer. Once you are finished, click the blue "Save" button to update the review.

Please note: Once you flush out the test data from the system, these test bookings and reviews will be removed. Click here to learn more about your admin settings and how to flush test data from your account.

Add Live Reviews in the Website Builder
If you would like to add the live reviews block to another page on your website, please go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website and theme editor.
Use the top-center "Page" menu to select which page you'd like to add the live review block.
Close the left-side "Manage Pages" menu that appears using the "X" icon.
Then, hover your cursor over the page until you see a blue "Add Section" box appear.
Select the "Live Reviews" link from the left-side menu and then click "Add This Section".

Your live reviews will now be displayed where you placed them on this page.

Please note: If you do not have any internal reviews in your system yet, this section will be hidden until you receive one. The reviews you see by the "Test Customer" are for display purposes only and will not be displayed to customers.

To push the update live to your website, click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page.

Customers will now be able to see the live reviews you have added to your page!



Automatic reviews explained
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/automatic-reviews-explained

Automatic reviews explained
Learn how to gain more external reviews and how customers can share reviews online.

Last updated on 10 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What is the "automatic reviews" feature
Ģ How to set up automatic reviews

What is the automatic reviews feature?
The automatic reviews feature allows you to capture internal customer ratings and turn them into external ratings on social media sites like Yelp, Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Thumbtack.

To do this, you can set a threshold for the rating the customer must leave to see the external review pop-up. This contains links with easy access to your business's profile, so the customer can quickly paste their review into the box and share it with their followers.

Setting Up Automatic Reviews
To set up the automatic reviews feature, go to:

Settings > General > Store Options

At the top of the page, click on the Customer tab.

Then, scroll down to the "Bookings" section and click the "plus sign" icon to expand it.

Scroll down until you see the question:

Would you like to give your customers the option to share their internal reviews on an external review platform?

Ģ Select "No" to disable the external reviews feature for customers.
Ģ Select "Yes" to enable this feature.

If enabled, you can set a threshold for how high the customer's rating must be for the external review pop-up to display.

Then, check the box next to each site name to add links for each location you service. Click "Edit" to edit the label, or "Delete" to delete that site entirely from the pop-up.

Click the blue "Add New" button to add a new website of your choice.

Where do you want to automatically share the customer's ratings on?

Check the box below this question to enable automatic review sharing on Twitter or Facebook.

Which services would you like this to apply to?

Select which type of customers will see this feature. Check the boxes next to One time, Recurring, or both.

Do you want to let customers earn from sharing?

Ģ Select "Yes" to allow customers to earn credits when they share a review.
Ģ Select "No" to disable this option.

Will customers get rewarded per share?

If you selected "Yes", to the previous question, decide whether customers will be awarded credits for each time they share or just the first time.

Ģ Click "Yes" to give a customer credit(s) every time they share on Twitter.
Ģ Click "No" to only give them credit(s) the first them they share their review.

How much do customers get for sharing on Twitter/Facebook?

Enter the number of credits the customer will receive when they share on Twitter or Facebook.

Remember to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom left corner of the page to update your settings.



Campaign module overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/campaign-module-overview

Campaign module overview
Learn about the BookingKoala campaign module and how to use its features.

Last updated on 11 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:

Ģ Reasons why to use the campaign module
Ģ What features are included in the campaign module
Ģ Which BookingKoala subscriptions include the campaign module
Ģ Where to locate the campaign module

Why should I use the Campaign Module?
The campaign module is a powerful tool for businesses to achieve their marketing objectives, build lasting customer relationships, and drive sustainable growth. By strategically planning, executing, and measuring campaign performance, you can leverage the power of marketing to achieve your desired outcomes and thrive in a competitive market.

Campaigns can be designed to generate leads, attract new customers or providers, and drive conversions by offering compelling calls to action, valuable content, and incentives to encourage engagement and purchase. Through strategic messaging, targeted promotions, and effective call-to-actions, campaigns can directly impact sales figures, boosting revenue and driving business growth

Campaigns also allow businesses to track key performance indicators, measure the effectiveness of their marketing efforts, and optimize future campaigns for better results and a higher return on investment.

To learn how to convert more users, get more profit from your existing user base, and help you convert more prospects/providers, click here .

How do I use the Campaign Module?
The campaign module is a Premium feature designed to help you manage mailing lists, create campaign templates, and automate marketing campaigns all from inside your BookingKoala dashboard.

Campaigns are a sequence of communications sent to a list of contacts regarding your business. Campaigns can be used in a variety of ways: to welcome customers, offer promotions, provide more information about your services, update your providers, and more!

To get started and verify your sender email address and phone number, click here .

When you or your customers fill out a booking form or lead form, their email and phone number are collected in one of several mailing lists, or " audiences ". You can also collect all the contact information for staff, providers, and all customers who have created an account (but not booked). Click here to learn how to create and edit your audiences.

If you already have existing mailing lists, you can import your contacts into the BookingKoala audiences. Click here to learn more about the contacts import feature.

The Campaign Module comes with 11 pre-built audience lists that are already linked to your forms.  You can further customize which audience is connected to your forms under the Settings section. Click here to learn how to set up and manage the audiences for your campaigns.

You can create new campaign forms to collect leads in a specific way. Click here to learn how to capture leads by creating a campaign form.  Once you've built a form it can be embedded on your website or the BookingKoala website builder. Click here to learn how to embed your campaign form(s).

You can save custom templates that can be used for future campaigns. Once saved, you can select the template to quickly create and send out new campaigns. Click here to learn how to build email templates for your campaigns. Click here to learn how to build SMS templates.

Once you are ready to contact your audience, you can send out manual or automated campaigns.

Manual campaigns are designed to be sent out once by clicking " Start Campaign ". Click here to learn how to set up a manual email campaign. Click here to learn how to set up a manual SMS campaign.

Automated campaigns are built using triggers to determine when the audience is contacted. Click here to build an automated email campaign. Click here to build an automated SMS campaign.

Once a campaign has been sent out, you can use the Insights section to view how many contacts you've collected, which ones resulted in bookings, how much revenue you've earned through a campaign, and which forms are performing the best. Click here to learn how to read your campaign reports.

Who has access to the Campaign Module?
You must have a Premium subscription in order to access the Campaign Module.

If you are not currently signed up for the Premium plan, you will see a "feature not available" message when you try to access this section.

Image

If you want to upgrade your plan to try the feature out, you can click the green " Upgrade " button at the top of the screen.

Where can I find the Campaign Module?
To open the Campaign Module, go to the main menu on the left of your Dashboard and click on the " Marketing " tab. Then, select " Campaigns ".

Image

You will be redirected to the Campaign Module dashboard.



How to create and edit audience lists
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-create-and-edit-audience-lists

How to create and edit audience lists
Article Title
How to create and edit audience lists

Navigation Paths
Ģ Go to "Marketing" tab in the left-side menu > select "Campaigns" to open the Campaign Module. You will be automatically redirected to the "Audience" section.

Features Described and How They Work
Audience Lists
An audience list (or audience) is a list of contact information used to send email or SMS campaigns. Premium subscribers can create and manage audiences inside the Campaign Module.

11 predefined audience lists come with your account:
Ģ Abandoned Carts: Contact information of customers who entered an email address into a two-step or multi-step form but did not book the service.
Ģ All Customers: All customers who have created an account or booked a service.
Ģ All Providers: Contact information for all providers in the system.
Ģ All Staff Members: Contact information for all staff members in the system.
Ģ Canceled Recurring: Contact information for all recurring customers that have canceled their service.
Ģ Gift Card Recipient: Contact information of all customers who received gift cards.
Ģ Gift Card Sender: Contact information of all customers who purchase/send a gift card.
Ģ One-Time Customers: Contact information for customers who have booked a one-time service.
Ģ Recurring Customers: Contact information for customers who have booked a recurring service.
Ģ Referral: Contact information of customers who have been referred to your business.
Ģ Referrer: Contact information of customers who have referred others to your business.

Audience Actions
There are several options located under the "Actions" column to the far left of each audience:
Ģ Edit: Edit the name of your audience list.
Ģ View Contacts: Redirects to the "Contacts" page for this audience to view collected user information, when it was added, and subscription status.
Ģ New Subscriber: Add a new contact to an audience.
Ģ Delete (Contact): Delete a contact from an audience list.
Ģ Import: Import a .CSV file of contacts into an audience list.
Ģ Export: Export contacts in an audience list in the form of a .CSV file.
Ģ Delete (Audience): Completely remove an audience list from your system.

Create a New Audience List
In addition to prebuilt audiences, you can create your own lists. Once created, you can update form settings to use this list instead of the "All Customers" list. Useful for segregating customers based on industry, form, or booked services.
Ģ New Audience: Create a brand new audience without any contacts.
Ģ From Created: Copy all contacts from an existing audience into a new audience list.

Step-by-Step Instructions & Settings
How to edit the audience name
1243 Under the "Actions" column to the far left of the audience, click "Edit".
1244 An "Update Audience" pop-up will appear.
1245 Change the name.
1246 Click the blue "Update" button to save changes.

How to view the contact details
1247 Under the "Actions" column, click "View Contacts".
1248 You will be redirected to the "Contacts" page for this audience.

How to add a new subscriber
1249 Under the "Actions" column, click "New Subscriber".
1250 An "Add New Contact" pop-up will appear.
1251 Enter the user's information.
1252 Click the blue "Add" button to add the contact to the audience list.
1253 A green system notification will appear in the top right corner confirming success.

How to delete a contact
1254 Click the trash can icon to the right of the contact details.
1255 A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to delete this contact.
1256 Click "Yes" to proceed.

How to import contacts into an audience
1257 Under the "Actions" column, click "Import".
1258 You will be redirected to an "Import Contacts" page.
1259 (Optional) Click the green "Sample File For Contact" to download a sample file showing how to format contacts. You can modify and add contacts directly to this file.
1260 Click the blue "Browse" button to select the .CSV file from your device.
1261 Click the blue "Import" button.
1262 You will be redirected to an "Import Contacts" page to map imported fields into contact fields.
1263 Drag and drop each field into the corresponding box.
1264 Click the blue "Import" button.
1265 You will be directed back to the "Import Contacts" page where you will see an "Import History" section.
1266 Click the orange "Reload" button to refresh the page and check the status.
1267 Once complete, a green "Complete" label appears below the "Status" column. Under "Total Records", you can see how many contacts were imported.
1268 If any contacts failed, an orange "Learn More" link appears below "Complete". Click it to see failed contacts and reasons.

How to export contacts from an audience
1269 Click "Options" under the Actions column.
1270 Click "Export".
1271 A .CSV file will begin downloading automatically.

How to delete an audience
1272 Select "Options" under the Actions column.
1273 Select "Delete".
1274 A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to delete this audience.
1275 Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

How to create a new audience list
1276 Make sure you are on the "Audience" tab at the top of the Campaign Module menu.
1277 Click the grey "Create Audience" menu at the top right corner of the page.
1278 To create a brand new audience:
a. Select "New Audience".
b. A pop-up will appear where you can enter the audience name.
c. Click the blue "Save" button to continue.
d. A green system notification will appear confirming success.
1279 To copy contacts into a new audience list:
a. Select "From Created".
b. A pop-up will appear where you can select which audience you want to copy over and enter a name for the new audience.
c. Click the blue "Save" button to continue.
d. A green system notification will appear confirming success.

Limitations, Gotchas, or Important Notes
Ģ Premium Subscription Required: You must be a Premium subscriber to create and manage audiences inside the Campaign Module.
Ģ Email Address Required for Import: All users must contain an email address for it to be imported into the system via CSV.
Ģ Irreversible Deletion: Once an audience list has been deleted, it cannot be retrieved.



How to manage audience lists inside campaigns
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-manage-lists-inside-campaigns

How to manage audience lists inside campaigns
Learn how audience lists work inside your campaigns and how to connect them to your forms.

Last updated on 23 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to manage the audiences connected to each form

Managing Audience Lists
When you first sign up for a Premium subscription with BookingKoala, your account comes with several pre-built, pre-connected audience lists inside the Campaign Module. These lists collect contact information as it is entered into the system.

However, you may want to reconfigure or segregate your audience into different lists depending on which form or industry a customer has booked. You can manage these settings inside the Campaign Module "Settings" section.

To open the Campaign Module, click on the "Marketing" tab in the left-side menu and select "Campaigns".

Next, click on: Settings > Forms

There are two sections on this page: Forms and Additional Forms.

Forms

The top section, "Forms", contains settings for your Booking Form, Gift Cards, and Earn Credits pages. Tracking for these forms is enabled by default. This means that whenever the form is filled out, the contact information will be added to the designated audience list.

If you would like to disable tracking, that is, stop collecting new customer information for a particular form, click the "Disable Tracking" button under the "Actions" column.

To manage which audience is connected to a form, click the "Settings" button under the "Actions" column.

A menu will open on the left side of the screen displaying the settings for the form.

You can disable tracking from this section by switching the green "Enabled" button to "Disabled" at the top of the menu.

Beneath "Cart Abandonment", you can select which list will collect the contact information of customers who filled out the form but did not schedule a service. By default, the "Abandoned Carts" audience is selected.

Next, you can decide if you would like to segregate your audience list into specific lists.

Ģ If you select "No", all customers who schedule services through any booking form will be collected in the "All Customers" audience by default.
Ģ Select "Yes" if you would like to segregate your user's information into specific lists.
? If you have more than one industry, click the industry tabs at the top of this section to set your audience list(s) per industry.
? If you would like to all contacts in a particular industry to be sorted into the same list, select "All" and pick the audience list from the dropdown box below.
? If you would like to further segregate your audience lists based on the form details, select "Per Form". Then, click on the form tabs to set your audience list for each form.
? If you would like to set up audience lists for each location, select "Per Location". From here, you can select "Everything in one list" or further segregate based on the categories you use in your forms.
? If you would like to set up audience lists based on a selection made in the booking form, select "Per [Category Name]" below where it says "Show should we collect the info?"

After you have selected the audience list(s), scroll down to the next question, "Should user information be removed from other lists if they end up in the 'Cart abandonment' list?"

Ģ Select "Yes" to have the system automatically remove customers from other audience lists if they end up in the "Abandoned Cart" list. Select which list(s) you want them to be removed from using the box below.
Ģ Select "No" to keep customers on other audience lists if they are added to the abandoned cart audience.

Next, select an answer for, "Should user information be removed from other lists if the user books with your company?"

Ģ Select "Yes" if you'd like a user's information to be removed from any audience lists once they book with your company. Select which list(s) you want them to be removed from using the box below.
? By default, this is set up to remove customers from the following lists: Referral, Gift Card Recipient, Cancelled Recurring, and Abandoned Carts.
Ģ Select "No" to keep the user information in other lists even if they schedule a service.

Next, select an audience list to collect information if a one-time booking is canceled. The default audience is set to "One Time Customers".

Finally, select an audience list to collect information if a recurring service is canceled. The default audience is set to "Canceled Recurring".

At the bottom of the side menu, click the blue "Save & Close" button to update your campaign form settings.

Additional Forms

The second section on the form settings page is called "Additional Forms". These forms are disabled by default.

The three additional forms correspond with your "All Staff Members", "All Providers", and "All Customers" audience lists. When enabled, these forms will automatically collect each staff member, provider, and customer's contact information in the appropriate audience list.

To enable one of the additional forms, click the green "Enable" button under the "Action" column.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to start collecting all contacts inside this list. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

The form status will be switched to "Enabled" and the system will now start collecting user information as it is saved into the system.



Import all contacts for campaigns
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/import-all-contacts-feature

Import all contacts for campaigns
Learn more about the "import all contacts" feature inside the Campaign Module and how to use it.

Last updated on 28 Nov, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to use the "import all contacts" feature in the Campaign Module
Ģ Troubleshoot the common errors while uploading/importing the customer/contact data

What is the "Import All Contacts" feature?
If you are a Premium subscriber, you can use the "import all contacts" feature to push all of your BookingKoala contacts into the Campaign Module.

This feature pulls all of the user contact information saved in your store into audience lists. Once you've synced your contacts, you can create and send out campaigns to your audiences.

For example:
Ģ All customers from the "Customers" section will be pushed into the "All Customers" audience.
Ģ All providers added to the "Providers" section will be pushed into the "All Providers" audience.
Ģ All staff members added to the "Staff Members" section will be pushed into the "All Staff Members" audience.

If you have created a new audience, the system will pull contact information based on the form settings and push them into the audience you have selected.

For example:
Ģ All customers who have booked "one-time" services will be pushed into a "One Time Customers" list.
Ģ All customers who have booked a "premium" service will be pushed into a "Premium Service Customers" list.
Ģ All customers who booked in the "Chicago" location will be pushed into the "Chicago Customers" list.

Click here to learn more about how to manage audiences and connect them to your forms.

There are several reasons why you may want to use the import all contacts option:
1280 If you have deleted all the contacts from your mailing lists, you can import them again.
1281 If you have recently upgraded to the Premium plan, your previous contacts won't be pushed into your lists. Only contacts added moving forward will be collected into your audience lists. To add preexisting contacts to your lists, you can use the import feature.
1282 If you used BookingKoala before the release of the Campaign Module, your previously existing contacts will not be automatically pushed into your audience lists. To add preexisting contacts to your lists, you can use the import feature.

Once the import is complete, you can always mass delete the contacts or lists you don't want to use.

For example, if you don't want to use the "Providers" list, you can delete all of the imported emails and phone numbers from the audience and disable contacts from being collected in that list.

How To Import All Contacts into the Campaign Module
To begin, please open the Campaign Module by going to: Marketing > Campaigns

Once you are inside the Campaign Module, you will be directed to the "Audiences" section. Click the blue "Import All Contacts" button at the top of the page.

A pop-up window will appear with several points of reference:
Ģ If you already have contacts in your audience lists, they will not be removed or deleted by importing missing contacts.
Ģ If an existing contact is on your import file, it will not be imported a second time (unless the contact information has been changed).
Ģ Any contacts not already included in the list will be added to the audience.

If you are ready to proceed, click the blue "Yes" button.

Once the import is complete, the page will reload and display a green system notification in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the import was successful.

Troubleshoot the common errors while uploading/importing the customer/contact data
Please use the following steps to try and identify what issue(s) are causing your CSV file not to upload the contact data properly.

1. Download the Sample CSV file:
It is recommended that you click on the "Sample File For Team" before uploading your file so that you can get a better sense of all the fields that BookingKoala supports. In case you do not already have a .CSV file, you may also download this template and use it to create one by adding new rows and filling them in as needed.

2. Check the format of the file you are uploading/importing:
Ģ If the format of the file is NOT ".CSV", please save the file in ".CSV" format and then try to upload the file.
Ģ If the format of the file is ".CSV", proceed to the next step.

3. If the file format is ".CSV", and you get the below error message:
Ģ This error means that sometimes while uploading the ".CSV" file, the column name takes some extra characters like space or comma which creates an issue for the system to read the file. If this error appears, it is recommended to re-save the file as a ".CSV" file and then re-try uploading the file.

4. If you still get the error: Please email your .CSV file and the error screenshot to support@bookingkoala.com seeking further assistance.



How to create a campaign form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-create-a-campaign-form

How to create a campaign form
Learn how to create campaign forms so you can start capturing leads and build your mailing lists.
Last updated on 15 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How campaign forms work
Ģ How to create a new campaign form

What are campaign forms?
One of the features included in the Campaign Module is the ability to create your own custom booking forms specifically to capture leads. These campaign forms can be added to the BookingKoala website builder or embedded into any third-party site.

Campaign forms are based on the same parameters you set up when customizing your booking form.

When a lead fills out the form and clicks the "Get Estimate" button on a campaign form, BookingKoala captures their contact information and adds it to whichever mailing list, or audience, you have set up. The lead will be directed to a pre-filled booking form to finish the scheduling process.

Leads can be collected into different audiences depending on which option(s) they've selected on the form.

Create a Campaign Form
Navigation Path: Marketing > Campaigns

To begin building a campaign form, you'll first need to open the Campaign Module. From the left side menu, go to: Marketing > Campaigns

Once inside, click on the "Settings" tab in the top right corner of the page and select "Forms".

Next, click the blue "Create Form" button in the top right corner of the page.

A popup window will ask you to provide a title and a layout for the form. You can preview each layout by hovering over the thumbnail image and clicking "Preview". Once you've made your selection, chose "Select" and then click the blue "Add Button".

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know your new campaign form has been generated. You will be redirected to the Add New Form page.

Select Industry/Form
If your business has multiple industries, there will be a "Select Industry" drop-down menu at the top left corner of the form preview page. By default, "All" will be selected.

If you are looking to make a campaign form for a specific industry, click the drop-down menu and select the industry you'd like to use.

Important Note: A pop-up window will appear letting you know that your Audience settings will reset. Click the blue "Yes" button to proceed.

If you use more than one booking form per industry, you can use the "Select Form" drop-down menu to select "All", or select a specific form from the list.

Important Note: If you make any changes to the form selection, you will again see a pop-up window letting you that the audience settings will be reset just like if you were to change the industry.

Form Fields
On the left-hand side of the screen, you will see a "Form Fields" menu. 

Fields Visibility: The first tab, called "Fields Visibility", allows you to control which fields will be included on your campaign form.
Ģ If the toggle button to the right of a field name is red and says "Hide", your campaign form will not include this field. 
Ģ If the button is green and says "Show", that field will be used in your form.
Ģ You can add or remove fields by clicking the toggle button to switch the status.

Rearrange Sections: The second tab in the "Form Fields" menu is "Rearrange Sections". Click this tab to view and modify the order in which fields are displayed on the campaign form.
Ģ To rearrange the fields, click and hold the field names to drag and drop them into a new order. 
Ģ Once finished, click the blue "Save" button to update the field order. 
Ģ You can also click the orange "Reset To Default" button if you'd like to use the original order of the fields.

Global Style
To make changes to the general appearance of the campaign form, click the blue "Global Style" button at the top of the page.

Text Settings:
Ģ You can upload an image to use as the form's background. To enable background media, tap the red "Hide" button to switch it to "Show".
Ģ Next, select "Edit" or click the media image in the box below. This will open a pop-up window where you can upload a new image or use one from your gallery.
Ģ After you've uploaded an image, you can use the "Opacity" bar to adjust the image's transparency.

Style Settings:
Ģ You can set a Background Color for the form as well as an Error Color (used if the lead tries to proceed to the next step without selecting an option).
Ģ Below, use the "Padding" section to adjust the spacing between the form content and the edge of the window.

Settings
Click the blue "Settings" button at the top right corner of the screen to enable tracking and select which list(s) will collect your lead information.

A menu will appear on the right side of the screen. If you would like to collect your lead information for campaign purposes, make sure the toggle button next to "Tracking" is green is says "Enabled".

Below, make a selection for "Should the tracking work based on?"
Ģ Select "All" to sort all leads into the same audience list. Pick which list will collect the information from the drop-down menu below.
Ģ Select "Per Form" to segregate leads into different audience lists. If you have multiple forms or industries, you can select a different audience list for each form/industry.
Ģ You can further segregate your audience lists by location by selecting "Per Location" instead of "All".
Ģ Instead of selecting "Everything in one list", you can further break down your audience lists based on which option the lead has selected on the campaign form. You can collect information per service category, frequency, pricing parameters, packages, or whichever sections you have included for your form type.

Once you have finished selecting the audience list(s) for the campaign form, click the blue "Save" button to save your preferences in the backend or click the green "Save & Publish" button to push the changes live immediately.

Editing Text, Layout, and Colors
Just like the BookingKoala website and theme builder, hover your cursor over different elements on your campaign form to see more options for customization. A white "Edit" button will appear in the top-left corner of that element. Click on the "Edit" button to see style settings for that section.

Ģ Some fields will allow you to edit the text used for an element.  Limitation/Important Note: Please note this is only for section titles or descriptions outside the name of the services categories, pricing parameter names, etc. you entered when creating your original booking form. For example, you can edit the placeholder for "Choose Your Service", however, you wouldn't be able to change the service names like "Pet Grooming", "Residential", etc. in this form as these are controlled under the "Service Categories" section of your original booking form.
Ģ The "Personal Details" section also gives you the option to make certain fields required. When required, the lead must provide an answer or they will not be able to continue filling out the form.
Ģ Some sections will also have a white "Layout" button next to the "Edit" button. Click "Layout" to see different styles of presenting a field or its options.

Preview, Save, and Publish
Ģ Save & Preview: Once you are finished customizing your campaign form, you can click the white "Save & Preview" button in the top right corner of the page to see what the form looks like to leads. 
Ģ Save: You can also click the white "Save" button to save your form and its settings to the backend of your site.
Ģ Save & Publish: When you are ready to begin using the form, please click the blue "Save & Publish" button to push your form live. Once your campaign form has been published, you'll be ready to embed it on your website to start collecting leads.



How to embed campaign forms
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-embed-campaign-forms

How to embed campaign forms
Learn how to embed your campaign form on BookingKoala or your own website.

Last updated on 23 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Locate the embed codes for your campaign/short forms
Ģ Find instructions for embedding the form into your website

Getting Started
Campaign forms, or "short forms", are booking forms that can be created specifically to collect data from your leads and customers.

Campaign forms are based on the same parameters you set up when customizing your original booking form. When a lead fills out the form, their contact information will be collected into different audiences (mailing lists) depending on which option(s) they've selected on the short form.

Once you've finished setting up a campaign form, you can use the form's embed code to add it to your website. This iframe code can be placed on any page in the BookingKoala website builder or on any other site hosted by WordPress, SquareSpace, etc.

Locate the Embed Code
To copy your form's embed code, please go to: Marketing > Campaigns

Once you are inside the Campaign Module, click on the grey "Settings" tab at the top right corner of the page and select "Forms".

Next, locate the form you would like to embed and click the "Embed Code" link to the right of the "Edit" button.

An "Embed Code" pop-up will appear. Click the blue "Copy Code" button to copy the form's code to your clipboard.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner confirming the code has been copied successfully.

If you are editing the campaign form, there is also an orange "Generate Embed Code" button at the top right corner of the edit page.

Again, click the blue "Copy Code" button in the pop-up to copy the code.

Embedding Campaign Forms on a Custom Website
Once you've copied the embed code, navigate to your website builder and follow the instructions in the links below to embed the form. Here are instructions for some of the most common website builders our clients use:
Ģ WordPress
Ģ Wix
Ģ Squarespace
Ģ GoDaddy
Ģ Weebly
Ģ Shopify

If you do not see your website builder listed here, please email us at support@bookingkoala.com and let us know so we can update our article and provide assistance with embedding your forms.

Embedding Campaign Forms on a BookingKoala Website
If you use the BookingKoala website and theme builder, you can embed the iframe code using the "Custom Code" element. Start by going to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website editor.

Once inside, click on the top-center "Page" menu and select the page you would like to embed the campaign form on. In this example, we will be embedding the short form onto the "Services" page.

Click the "X" icon to close the menu that appears on the left.

Next, hover your cursor over the page until you see a blue "Add Section" button appear where you would like to insert the form. Click "Add Section" to display the "Add Section" menu on the left side of the page.

Scroll down to the bottom of the menu and click on "Custom". Then, hover over the section preview and click "Add This Section". A custom section will be added to the page.

Hover your cursor over "Your Content Here" and click the white "Edit" button in the top left corner of the section.

A "Settings" pop-up will appear. Delete the text inside the "Code" box and then paste your campaign form embed code in its place.

You will now see your campaign form displayed in the custom section.

Remember to click the "Save" or "Save & Publish" button at the top-right corner of the page to save your changes and/or push them live.



How to create email templates for campaigns
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-create-templates

BookingKoala
Back To BookingKoala
Search
Open menu
Looking for help?
Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides
BookingKoala Help Center
Marketing
How to create email templates for campaigns
Marketing
How to create email templates for campaigns
Learn how to create email templates and use them for new campaigns.
Last updated on
23 Jun, 2022
The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Create a new email template
Edit, Duplicate, or Delete a template
Create a campaign with an email template
What are templates?
A
template
isĀa file created with an overall layout and design.Ā Once a template has been created, it can be applied or used to build one or more campaigns. In BookingKoala, you can create templates for both email and SMS campaigns.
For this article, we will discuss how to create an
email template
inside the
Campaign Module
.
Click here
if you'd like to learn more about creating SMS templates.
Create a Template from a Layout or Theme
To begin, you will need to access the
Campaign Module
.Ā From the left-side menu, click on:
Marketing > Campaigns
Click on the "
Templates
" tab at the top of the page and select "
Email
".Ā Next, click the light blue "
Create Template
" button at the top right corner of this section.
There are three different ways to begin creating your template.
Select a basic
layout
.
Use a pre-built
theme
.
Code your own
template.
Layouts and Themes
Layouts
have a basic structure differentiated by the number of columns, the width of email content, and the inclusion of spaces for media.Ā ĀThe layout is filled with dummy text and images to serve as placeholders for your email.
There are 7 general layouts. To view them, select the "
Layouts
" tab.
Hover over each layout and click the blue "
Preview
" button to see the structure in greater detail. Use the
desktop
and
mobile icons
at the top right corner of the preview window to see how this layout looks for each type of device.
Themes
are layouts that can be used immediately.Ā These pre-built layouts already have images, text, and colors.Ā Just like layouts, you can also edit themes to further customize the style of the email.
If you would like to view the pre-built themes, click the "
Themes
" tab at the top of the page.
There are 8 different pre-built themes to choose from. Just like with layouts, you can hover your cursor over each theme and click the blue "
Preview
" button that appears.Ā There are also desktop and mobile icons to see how the template will look on different device types.
To
select
a layout or theme, simply
click anywhere
except the "
Preview
" button to select it.Ā Once you pick a template, you will be automatically directed to the
email template editor
to finish constructing the email.
If you ever navigate back to this step and would like to choose a different template, your original selection will have aĀblue box around it.
Drag and Drop Editor
If you have selected to build your template by selecting a
layout
,
theme
, or uploading a
JSON file
, you can customize your template using the "
Drag and Drop Editor
".
There are two different tabs in the editor:
Blocks
and Style.
To edit any blocks that are already included in your template or layout, click or hover over the
block
in the email body to reveal several
action buttons
.
If you select the "
Edit
" icon, options to modify the block will appear in the right-side menu. Depending on the block, there may be additional tabs that control the content, style, or settings.
Once you are finished making any changes, be sure to click the blue "
Save & Close
" button at the bottom of the menu.
To
add new blocks
to your email,
drag and drop
any block from the right-side menu into the email.
There are 12 different blocks to pick from.
Text:
Insert a section that contains plain text.
Boxed Text:
Add a section of text with a high-contrast background color.
Dividers:
Insert a line to separate blocks in your email.
Images:
Add an image. The accepted formats are
JPEG, PNG,
or
GIF
.Ā Each JPEG and PNG file can be up to
1 MB
, and GIFs can be up to
3 MB
.
Image Card:
Insert an image that has a high-contrast background color and space for a caption.
Image + Text:
Insert an image with space for a caption.
Share:
Add icons that share a link when clicked.
Social Follow:
Link your social media pages to icons.
Button:
Add a button that directs the user to a website, email address, or phone number.
Footer:
Add a customized footer at the bottom of the email.
Code:
Insert custom HTML code into the email.
Video:
Insert a video with a thumbnail and caption below it.
Switch into the "
Style
" tab to control the
font size
,
colors
, and other aspects of the appearance of your campaign.
There are five different sections under the "
Style
" tab.
The "
Page
" section is to format the background colors or images, adjust the appearance of the template structure, and format fonts for each heading style.
The "
Header
" section can be used to format the links, style, padding, and text in the email's header.
The "
Body
" section formats the links, style, padding, and text in the email's body.
Click the "
Footer
" sectionĀto format the link, style, padding, and text in the email's footer.
Click the "
Mobile
" section to configure the size and line height of text displayed on a mobile device.
Please make sure you have clicked the light blue "
Save
" button at the bottom of the sidebar if you have made any changes you would like to keep.
Final Steps
Once you are finished constructing your email template, there are a few different actions you can take.
Export
If you would like to export your template, click the white "
Export
" button at the top right side of the page.
Choose "
Export As HTML
" to export the template as an
HTML
file.Ā The file will begin to download automatically.
Choose "
Export Template
" if you'd like to export the template as a
JSON
file. The file will begin to download automatically.
Preview and Test
Once you are finished formatting the email, you can click the white "
Preview And Test
" button at the top right corner of the page.
Select "
Enter Preview Mode
" to preview your email for
desktop
and
mobile devices
. Click the red
X icon
in the top right corner of the box to exit the preview pop-up.
Select "
Send Test Email
" to email the template to yourself or another interested party. Enter the email address into the box and then click the blue "
Send
" button.Ā If successful, you will see a green system alert in the top right corner letting you know the test email has been sent.
If you receive a
red error message
, the email address you entered has not been verified in the Campaign Module.Ā Once you've saved your draft, go back to the campaign dashboard and select
Settings > Notifications.
Scroll down to the "
Default Send Out Email
" and click the blue "
Change
" button.
A pop-up window will appear.Ā If you have verified other email addresses in your BookingKoala account, you can select "
Already Saved
" to switch to an existing sender email and click "
Update
".
If you need to add a new email address, select "
Add New
" and enter the email into the box below. Click the blue "
Update
" button to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know a
verification email
has been sent to the new email address.Ā Visit your inbox and complete the process by clicking the
link
in the email.
Click here
for more detailed instructions on how to verify sender email addresses.
Save & Exit
The most important step to take once you've finished creating your email template is to save it for future use.Ā Click the blue "
Save & Exit
" button at the top right corner of the page.
Code Your Own Template
Instead of using layouts or themes, you can choose to
code your own
template.Ā This option is helpful if you are comfortable working with custom code or have a file with a finished template.
You will begin the same way as if creating a template from a layout or theme.Ā Click on the "
Templates
" tab at the top of the page and select "
Email
".
Next, click the light blue "
Create Template
" button at the top right corner of this section.
Click on the "Code Your Own" tab near the top of the page.
There are three specific options for coding your own template.
Paste in code
Import HTML
Import JSON
Paste in Code
To use "
Paste in code
", hover over the option with your cursor and click on the blue "
Paste in code
" button.
You will be given a basic template that you can modify using
HTML code
or replace the code altogether.Ā Once you have edited the code for the body of the template, click the "
Footer Signature
" tab to enter/edit the code for the template's footer.
Please Note
: This type of template is not editable using the
"Drag & Drop Editor
" discussed later on in this article.
Import HTML
To use "
Import HTML
", hover over the option with your cursor and click on the blue "
Import HTML
" button.
A pop-up window will appear where you will enter the
template name
.Ā Click the blue "
Browse
" button to select an
HTML file
to upload.Ā Click the light blue "
Import
" button to continue.
You can modify the template you've uploaded using
HTML
.Ā Click the "
Footer Signature
" tab to edit the code for the template's footer.
Please Note
: This type of template is not editable using the
"Drag & Drop Editor
" discussed later on in this article.
Import JSON
In addition to HTML files, you can also import JSON files to begin building your template.Ā Hover over the option with your cursor and click on the blue "
Import HTML
" button.
A pop-up window will appear where you will enter the
template name
.Ā Click the blue "
Browse
" button to select a
JSON file
to upload.Ā Click the light blue "
Import
" button to continue.
Unlike the "Paste In Code" or "Import HTML" options, you can modify the template you've uploaded using the "
Drag & Drop Editor
" discussed earlier in this article.
Export (Import HTML and Import JSON only)
If you would like to export your template, click the white "
Export
" button at the top right side of the page. If you used the
Import HTML
option, you can export your template as an
HTML
file.
If you used the
Import JSON
option, you can export the file as an HTML file or a JSON file.
Choose "
Export As HTML
" to export the template as an
HTML
file.Ā The file will begin to download automatically.
Choose "
Export Template
" if you'd like to export the template as a
JSON
file. The file will begin to download automatically.
Preview And Test (All Options)
Once you are finished with your changes, you can use the white "
Preview And Test
" button to enter preview mode and send a test email.
Select "
Enter Preview Mode
" to preview your email for
desktop
and
mobile devices
. Click the red
X icon
in the top right corner of the box to exit the preview pop-up.
Select "
Send Test Email
" to email the template to yourself or another interested party. Enter the email address into the box and then click the blue "
Send
" button.Ā If successful, you will see a green system alert in the top right corner letting you know the test email has been sent.
If you receive a
red error message
, the email address you entered has not been verified in the Campaign Module.Ā Once you've saved your draft, go back to the campaign dashboard and select
Settings > Notifications.
Scroll down to the "
Default Send Out Email
" and click the blue "
Change
" button.
A pop-up window will appear.Ā If you have verified other email addresses in your BookingKoala account, you can select "
Already Saved
" to switch to an existing sender email and click "
Update
".
If you need to add a new email address, select "
Add New
" and enter the email into the box below. Click the blue "
Update
" button to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know a
verification email
has been sent to the new email address.Ā Visit your inbox and complete the process by clicking the
link
in the email.
Click here
for more detailed instructions on how to verify sender email addresses.
Save & Exit
If you are finished with previewing and testing the template, click the blue "
Save & Exit
" button to save your template.
A "
Save Template
" pop-up will appear if you have not previously entered a template name.Ā Once you add a name for your template, click the blue "
Save
" button.
A green system notification will appear in the top-right corner letting you know your email template has been saved successfully.
Template Uses and Options
Once you've saved your template, you can always go back to it by clicking on "
Templates
" at the top of the Campaign Module and selecting "
Emails
".
Your templates will be listed in the section below.Ā Click "
Options
" under the "
Actions
" column to view different actions to take with a template.
You can:
Edit the template
Create a manual campaign using the template
Preview the template
Export the template as an HTML file
Duplicate the template
Delete the template
In addition to these options, you can also select any of your saved templates when creating an automated email campaign.
Edit a Template
Click "
Edit
" to open the template editor and make changes.
Remember to click the blue "
Save & Exit
" button once you are finished.
Create a New Campaign with a Template
Click "
Create Campaign
" to launch a new manual campaign using this template.
Click here
to learn how to set up a manual email campaign.
Preview a Template
Click "
Preview
" to open a pop-up with a preview of your template.Ā Use the
desktop
and
mobile
icons
to change the preview based on device type.
Click the red
"X" icon
to close the window.
Export a Template as an HTML File
Click "
Export as HTML
" to download an HTML file of your template.Ā The download will begin automatically.
Duplicate a Template
Click "
Duplicate
" to make an exact copy of a template.Ā A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to duplicate this template.
If you are sure, enter a new name for the template and click the blue "
Yes
" button. An identical template with a new name will be added to your list.
Delete a Template
Click "
Delete
" to delete a template from your account.Ā A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to delete this template.Ā The template cannot be restored after this step.
If you are sure, click the blue "
Yes
" button to proceed and the template will be removed from your list.
Use a Template for an Automated Email Campaign
If you would like to use a template to start creating an automated campaign, click on the "
Campaigns
" drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "
Email
", then "
Automated
".
Click the blue "
Create Automation
" button in the top-right corner of the screen to begin making the campaign.
Enter the
Campaign Name
into the first box, and then select which
Audience
you will connect to this campaign.
Click here
to learn how to create and edit audience lists. Click the blue "
Add
" button to generate the new campaign.
You will be brought to the "
Update Automation
" page.Ā To select an email template, click the blue "
Edit & Preview
" just below where it says "
Send Test
".
Fill out the "
Basic Information
" section and then click the blue "
Next
" button at the bottom of the page.
Under the "
Choose Template
" section, click the "
Saved Templates
" tab at the top left of the page.
Click on the template you would like to use and select the blue "
Next
" button at the bottom right corner of the page.
From here, you can finish editing and building your campaign.
Click here
to view a detailed guide on how to create automated campaigns.
Related Articles
How to create SMS templates for campaigns
Learn how to create SMS templates and use them for new campaigns.
How to create manual email campaigns
Learn how to create and send out manual email campaigns.
How to create manual SMS campaigns
Learn how to create and send out manual SMS campaigns.
How to create automated SMS campaigns
Learn how to create and send out automated SMS campaigns.
How to create automated email campaigns
Learn how to create and send out automated email campaigns.
Did you find this article helpful?
Yes
No
Previous
How to create SMS templates for campaigns
Next



How to create SMS templates for campaigns
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-create-sms-templates-for-campaigns

How to create SMS templates for campaigns
Learn how to create SMS templates and use them for new campaigns.

Last updated on 23 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Create a new SMS template
Ģ Edit, Duplicate, or Delete a template
Ģ Create a campaign with an SMS template

What are templates?
A template is a file created with an overall layout and design. Once a template has been created, it can be applied or used to build one or more campaigns. In BookingKoala, you can create templates for both email and SMS campaigns.

For this article, we will be discussing how to create an SMS template inside the Campaign Module.

Create an SMS Template
To begin, click on the "Templates" tab at the top of the page and select "SMS". Next, click the light blue "Create Template" button at the top right corner of this section.

Next, pick one of the seven pre-built SMS templates or select "Create Your Own" from the left side of the page.
Ģ Both options allow a maximum of 1000 characters per template.
Ģ Both options allow you to edit the title, message, links, and shortcodes by using the template editor on the right side of the screen.

You can pick a pre-built template if you want to quickly set up and save it for immediate use. The options are:
Ģ $10 OFF - Hello there, Save $10 on your next booking when using code (coupon code).
Ģ Did you know we offer gift cards? - Hello there, Did you know that our company offers gift cards? It makes for a perfect gift. To browse our gift cards visit this link: {{.SiteUrl}}/gift-cards/send
Ģ Refer a friend and earn credits! - Hello there, If you'd like to earn credits towards your future bookings you can do so by referring friends and family. To learn more about that visit: {{.SiteUrl}}
Ģ Happy holidays! - Hi there and happy holidays! We hope you have a fantastic day. Cheers, {{.StoreName}}.
Ģ Sign up for recurring service - Thank you for booking with us recently. Did you hear about our promotion? If you book for recurring service today using code (coupon code), you will save 20% on each visit.
Ģ Thank you for being a customer - We'd like to thank you for being a valued customer. If you ever need anything just let us know.
Ģ Time is ticking to save 25% - For the next 24 hours, we are offering 25% off your next appointment. Time is ticking so book your spot now: {{.SiteUrl}}/booknow

If you select "Create Your Own", you will customize the entire template with your content.

On the right side of the screen, begin by entering a title for the template. Only the admin and staff members will see this.

Next, construct your message in the box below.
Ģ Click on the link icon to add a link to the message.
Ģ Click the "Insert Short Codes" button to add a shortcode to the template.
Click "Insert" or "Copy" to use the shortcode in your message.
The shortcodes available for use in the SMS templates are:
? {{.StoreName}} - Displays your store name.
? {{.SupportEmail}} - Displays your support email.
? {{.SupportPhone}} - Displays your support phone number (as set under the General Store Options).
? {{.SiteUrl}} - Displays your site's url.
? {{.CurrentDate}} - Displays the current date (the format and timezone will be set according to your General Store Options).
? {{.CurrentYear}} - Displays the current year (the timezone will be set according to your General Store Options).
? {{.ContactFirstName}} - Displays the contact's first name.
? {{.ContactLastName}} - Displays the contact's last name.
? {{.ContactFullName}} - Displays the contact's full name.
? {{.ContactEmailId}} - Displays the contact's email address.
? {{.ContactPhone}} - Displays the contact's phone number.

Once you are finished constructing the template, click the light blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the screen.

Template Uses and Options
Once you've saved your template, you can always go back to it by clicking on "Templates" at the top of the Campaign Module and selecting "SMS".

Your templates will be listed in the section below. Click "Options" under the "Actions" column to view different actions to take with a template.

You can:
Ģ Edit the template
Ģ Create a manual campaign using the template
Ģ Send a test SMS using the template
Ģ Duplicate the template
Ģ Delete the template

In addition to these options, you can also select any of your saved templates when creating an automated SMS campaign.

Edit a Template Click "Edit" to open the template editor and make changes.
Remember to click the blue "Update" button once you are finished.

Create a New Campaign with a Template Click "Create Campaign" to launch a new manual campaign using this template.

Send a Test SMS Using a Template Click "Send Test SMS" and enter a phone number to send a test version of the template. Enter a phone number into the box in the pop-up.
Click the blue "Send" button to send out the SMS. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the SMS has been sent successfully.
Any shortcodes used in the template will be populated with "dummy" data to show you what the message will look like when a lead or client receives it.

Duplicate a Template Click "Duplicate" to make an exact copy of a template. A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to duplicate this template.
If you are sure, enter a new name for the template and click the blue "Yes" button. An identical template with a new name will be added to your list.

Delete a Template Click "Delete" to delete a template from your account. A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to delete this template. The template cannot be restored after this step.
If you are sure, click the blue "Yes" button to proceed and the template will be removed from your list.

Use a Template for an Automated SMS Campaign If you would like to use a template to start creating an automated campaign, click on the "Campaigns" drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "SMS", then "Automated".
Click the blue "Create Automation" button in the top-right corner of the screen to begin making the campaign.
Enter theCampaign Name into the first box, and then select which Audience you will connect to this campaign. Click the blue "Add" button to generate the new campaign.
You will be brought to the "Update Automation" page. To select an email template, click the blue "Edit & Preview" just below where it says "Send Test".
Enter aname and description for the sequence and then scroll down to the "Message" section of the page.
Click the grey "Choose Template" button to the right of the link icon and the "Insert Short Codes" button.
A menu will appear on the right side of the screen. Under the "Saved" section, click on the template you would like to use and select the light blue "Save & Close" button at the bottom of the menu.
From here, you can finish editing and building your campaign.



How to create manual email campaigns
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-out-a-campaign

How to create manual email campaigns
Learn how to create and send out manual email campaigns.

Last updated on 23 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:

Ģ Create an email campaign
Ģ Send out a campaign email

What are manual campaigns?
Manual campaigns are single-sequence comaigns that can be sent out immediately or scheduled for an upcoming date and time. You can create manual campaigns for both email and SMS.

Manual campaigns can be used in many different ways.Ā For example, you can send a coupon to all of your one-time clients by creating a campaign for this audience.

To get started, you will first need to have collected emails and/or phone numbers inside an audience list.Ā For more information on how to set up audiences, click here.

Create a Manual Email Campaign
To begin, you will need to access the Campaign Module.Ā From the left-side menu, click on:

Marketing > Campaigns

Click on the "Campaigns" drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Email", then "Create New".



Enter the name of your campaign in the pop-up, then click "Next" to continue.



You will be redirected to the campaign creation page. The topmost sections are used to set up who you are sending the campaign to and who it is coming from.

To

In the "To", select one or more audiences who you would like to receive the campaign.Ā Select an audience from the drop-down list, and then click anywhere inside the box to add additional audiences.



Below, you can check the box next to "Exclude anyone who has an active booking" if you only want the campaign to be sent to users with no active services.Ā This is a helpful option if you are trying to get customers to book your services again.



If you want to contact both customers with and without active bookings, please leave the box unchecked.

From

Next, set up the "From" section.Ā The system will use your default "send out" email address from the Campaign Module's "Settings" section.

You can change the sender email by clicking the blue "Change" button to the right of the default email address.



Enter the new email in the box below and click the blue "Update" button to proceed.Ā You'll see a green system notification in the top-right corner letting you know that a verification email has been sent to this email address.



You must verify the email address before it can be used to send out your campaign.Ā Open the inbox and look for a new email from Support with the subject "Activate your campaigns email notifications".Ā If you do not see the email in your main inbox, please check your spam folder as well.

Inside the email body, click the link at the bottom of the message to complete the verification process.



This will trigger a new tab to open in your internet browser with "Congratulations" at the top of the page. You have now verified the email and can continue setting up your campaign.



Once you are back on the campaign creation page, you can make changes to the sender name or provide a separate "reply to" email for responses to the campaign.



Subject

Next, enter the subject for this campaign.Ā This will be the first thing customers will see when they received your email.

If you'd like, you can use shortcodes in the email subject to populate a field with custom information.Ā You can insert any of these shortcodesĀby clicking the copy button and then pasting them into the subject line.



If you would like to test the success rate of two different subjects, click the "A/B" icon to the right of the subject box.

This feature will sendĀsubject A to 15% of your subscribers and subject B to a different 15% of subscribers (a combined total of 30%).



The system will observe the click rate for both subjects for 4 hours.Ā Once this observation period has concluded, the remaining 70% of subscribers will receive the campaign with the more effective subject.

Please Note: You must have at least 10 subscribers in your audience list to use this function.

Schedule

Next, set a schedule for when the campaign will be sent out.



Ģ If you select "Immediate" the campaign will be sent out as soon as you click the blue "Send Campaign" button on the right sidebar.



Ģ If you select "Pick Date & Time", use the calendar box to select the date and time the campaign will be sent by the system.



Email Content

The bottom section of the campaign generator is where you create and customize your email content.Ā Click the blue "Choose Template" button to begin the process.



Layouts and Themes

First, select a layout or theme from the provided options. There are 7 general layouts and 8 prebuilt themes to choose from.

Layouts have a basic structure differentiated by the number of columns, the width of email content, and the inclusion of spaces for media.Ā ĀThe layout is filled with dummy text and images to serve as placeholders for your email.

Hover over each layout and click the blue "Preview" button to see the structure in greater detail. Use the desktop and mobile icons at the top right corner of the preview window to see how this layout looks for each type of device.



ThemesĀare layouts that can be used immediately.Ā These pre-built layouts already have images, text, and colors.Ā Just like layouts, you can also edit themes to further customize the style of the email.

If you would like to view the pre-built themes, click the "Themes" tab at the top of the page.



Just like with layouts, you can hover your cursor over each theme and click the blue "Preview" button that appears.Ā There are also desktop and mobile icons to see how the template will look on different device types.



To select a layout or theme, simply click anywhere except the "Preview" button to select it.Ā Once you pick a template, you will be automatically directed to the "Drag and Drop Editor"Āto finish constructing the email.



If you ever navigate back to this step and would like to choose a different template, your original selection will have aĀblue box around it.

Blocks

Once you're inside the Drag and Drop Editor, you can finish constructing your campaign email.

Click/hover over on any section or "block" in the email body to view theĀaction buttons.



If you select the "Edit" icon, options to modify the block will appear in the right-side menu. Depending on the block, there may be additional tabs that control the content, style, or settings.

Once you are finished making any changes, be sure to click the blue "Save & Close" button at the bottom of the menu.



To add new blocks to your email, drag and drop any block from the right-side menu into the email.



There are 12 different blocks to pick from.

Ģ **Text:**Insert a section that contains plain text.



Ģ Boxed Text: Add a section of text with a high-contrast background color.



Ģ Dividers: Insert a line to separate blocks in your email.



Ģ Images: Add an image. The accepted formats areĀJPEG, PNG, or GIF.Ā Each JPEG and PNG file can be up to 1 MB, and GIFs can be up to 3 MB.



Ģ Image Card: Insert an image that has a high-contrast background color and space for a caption.



Ģ Image + Text: Insert an image with space for a caption.



Ģ Share: Add icons that share a link when clicked.



Ģ Social Follow: Link your social media pages to icons.



Ģ Button: Add a button that directs the user to a website, email address, or phone number.



Ģ Footer: Add a customized footer at the bottom of the email.



Ģ Code: Insert custom HTML code into the email.



Ģ Video: Insert a video with a thumbnail and caption below it.



Style

Switch into the "Style" tab to control the font size, colors, and other aspects of the appearance of your campaign.



Under the "Style" tab, there are five different sections.

Ģ Click the "Page" section to format the background colors or images, adjust the appearance of the template structure, and format fonts for each heading style.



Ģ Click the "Header" section to format the link, style, padding, and text in the email's header.



Ģ Click the "Body" section to format the link, style, padding, and text in the email's body.



Ģ Click the "Footer" sectionĀto format the link, style, padding, and text in the email's footer.



Ģ Click the "Mobile" section to configure the size and line height of text displayed on a mobile device.



Please make sure you have clicked the light blue "Save" button at the bottom of the sidebar if you have made any changes you would like to keep.

Export

If you would like to export your template, click the white "Export" button at the top right side of the page.



Ģ Choose "Export As HTML" to export the template as an HTML file.Ā The file will begin to download automatically.
Ģ Choose "Export Template" if you'd like to export the template as a JSON file. The file will begin to download automatically.

Preview and Test

Once you are finished formatting the email, you can click the white "Preview And Test" button at the top right corner of the page.



Ģ Select "Enter Preview Mode" to preview your email for desktop and mobile devices. Click the red X icon in the top right corner of the box to exit the preview pop-up.



Ģ Select "Send Test Email" to email the template to yourself or another interested party. Enter the email address into the box and then click the blue "Send" button.Ā If successful, you will see a green system alert in the top right corner letting you know the test email has been sent.

? If you receive a red error message, the email address you entered has not been verified in the Campaign Module.Ā Once you've saved your draft, go back to the campaign dashboard and selectĀSettings > Notifications.  

? Scroll down to the "Default Send Out Email" and click the blue "Change" button.ĀĀ
A pop-up window will appear.Ā If you have verified other email addresses in your BookingKoala account, you can select "Already Saved" to switch to an existing sender email and click "Update".  

? If you need to add a new email address, select "Add New" and enter the email into the box below. Click the blue "Update" button to proceed.ĀĀ  

? A green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know a verification email has been sent to the new email address.Ā Visit your inbox and complete the process by clicking the link in the email.Ā   

? Click here for more detailed instructions on how to verify sender email addresses.
Ģ [Image failed to load: Image][Image failed to load: Image]



Save and Activate Your Campaign

Once you have finished building your campaign, you save it as a draft or send it right away.

First, click the blue "Save & Continue" button in the top-right corner of the page.



You will be directed back to the main campaign builder page.Ā To save the campaign as a draft, click the green "Save" button in the right-side menu.



Once the campaign has been saved as a draft, you'll be directed back to the Email Campaigns section of the Campaign Module.



To make any further changes, or to send the email out, click "Options" on the right of the row and select "Edit".

To send out the campaign, click the blue "Send Campaign" button just below the "Save" button.



If you have selected "Immediate" for your schedule type, a pop-up will appear reminding you that the campaign will be emailed out as soon as you click the blue "Yes" button.



Once you click "Yes", you will be redirected back to the main "Email Campaigns" dashboard.Ā The status of the campaign may say "Processing" if the system is still in the process of sending the campaign to your audience members.



You can refresh the page until you see the status switch to "Sent".Ā At this point, you have successfully sent out the email campaign!





How to create manual SMS campaigns
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-create-manual-sms-campaigns

How to create manual SMS campaigns
What are manual campaigns?
Manual campaigns are single-sequence campaigns that can be sent out immediately or scheduled for an upcoming date and time. You can create manual campaigns for both email and SMS.
Manual campaigns can be used in many different ways. For example, you can send a coupon to all of your one-time clients by creating a campaign for this audience.
To get started, you will first need to have collected emails and/or phone numbers inside an audience list.

Connect Your Twilio Account
To create and send out SMS campaigns, you will first need to connect your Twilio account to the Campaign Module.

Navigation Path
Go to Marketing > Campaigns
Next, select the "Settings" tab at the top right corner of the page and click on "Notifications".
Scroll down to the bottom of this page until you see the "Default send out phone number" section.

Settings Mentioned
You will need to enter your Account ID, API Key (auth code), and Phone Number into the corresponding boxes.

If you've previously connected your Twilio account to send out system notifications, you can easily copy and paste these codes directly into this section. You can view your Twilio integration keys by going to the main admin dashboard and clicking:
Settings > Notifications > General
Scroll down to the bottom of the page and copy each code from the "SMS Settings" section.

If you have not integrated Twilio with BookingKoala yet, you can find these keys by visiting your Twilio dashboard. Once you are on your dashboard, scroll down to the bottom of the page and locate the "Account Info" section. All of the information you need is located in this section. Copy and paste each code in to the corresponding boxes in the Campaign Module.

Ģ The "Account SID" in Twilio goes into the "Account ID" box in BookingKoala.
Ģ To copy your "Auth Token", you will need to click the "Show" link to the right of the box. The "Auth Token" goes into the "API Key" box in BookingKoala.
Ģ Make sure "My Twilio phone number" from Twilio is entered exactly as pictured into the "Phone Number" box in BookingKoala.
? For example, "+15672299756" is correct.
? "15672299756" is incorrect.
? "5672299756" is incorrect.
? "+1(567)2299756" is incorrect.
? "+1-567-229-9756" is incorrect.

Finally, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right corner of the screen.
A green system alert will appear in the top right corner, letting you know that your account has been connected successfully. From here, you are ready to begin building SMS campaigns.

Create a Manual SMS Campaign
To begin building a manual SMS campaign, click on the "Campaigns" drop-down menu at the top of the Campaign Module page and select "SMS", then "Create New".
Enter the name of your campaign in the pop-up, then click "Next" to continue.
You will be redirected to the campaign creation page. The topmost sections are used to set up who you are sending the campaign to and who it is coming from.

To and From
In the "To", select one or more audiences who you would like to receive the campaign. Select an audience from the drop-down list, and then click anywhere inside the box to add additional audiences.
Below, you can check the box next to "Exclude anyone who has an active booking" if you only want the campaign to be sent to users with no active services. This is a helpful option if you are trying to get customers to book your services again.
If you want to contact both customers with and without active bookings, please leave the box unchecked.
The "From" section will display your Twilio phone number. This is specifically the Twilio number you set up in the Campaign Module settings page from earlier in the article.

Schedule
Next, set a schedule for when the campaign will be sent out.
Ģ If you select "Immediate" the campaign will be sent out as soon as you click the blue "Send Campaign" button on the right sidebar.
Ģ If you select "Pick Date & Time", use the calendar box to select the date and time the campaign will be sent by the system.

Message
Next, create your campaign's content by entering text into the "Message" box.
Ģ Click on the link icon to add a link to the message.
Ģ Click the "Insert Short Codes" button to add a shortcode to the template. Click "Insert" or "Copy" to use the shortcode in your message.
The shortcodes available for use in the SMS templates are:
? {{.StoreName}} - Displays your store name.
? {{.SupportEmail}} - Displays your support email.
? {{.SupportPhone}} - Displays your support phone number (as set under the General Store Options).
? {{.SiteUrl}} - Displays your site's url.
? {{.CurrentDate}} - Displays the current date (the format and timezone will be set according to your General Store Options).
? {{.CurrentYear}} - Displays the current year (the timezone will be set according to your General Store Options).
? {{.ContactFirstName}} - Displays the contact's first name.
? {{.ContactLastName}} - Displays the contact's last name.
? {{.ContactFullName}} - Displays the contact's full name.
? {{.ContactEmailId}} - Displays the contact's email address.
? {{.ContactPhone}} - Displays the contact's phone number.
Ģ Click the "Send Test SMS" button to send out a preview of the SMS to any phone number. Enter a phone number into the box in the pop-up. Click the blue "Send" button to send out the SMS. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page, letting you know the SMS has been sent successfully.
Ģ Any shortcodes used in the template will be populated with "dummy" data to show you what the message will look like when a lead or client receives it.
Ģ Click the "Choose Template" button to add a custom or pre-built template to the message box. A menu will appear on the right side of the page with two tabs, "Custom" and "Basic".
? Click on "Custom" to view any SMS templates you have saved.
? Click on "Basic" to view a list of pre-built SMS templates.
? Select the template you would like to insert and click on the light blue "Save & Close" button. The template will be inserted into the message box.

Save and Activate Your Campaign
Once you have finished constructing your campaign, you save it as a draft or send it right away.
To save the campaign as a draft, click the green "Save As Draft" button in the right side menu. You will be directed back to the SMS Campaigns page where you can view a summary of its basic information.
To send out the campaign, click the blue "Send Campaign" button just below the "Save" button.
If you have selected "Immediate" for your schedule type, a pop-up will appear reminding you that the campaign will be emailed out as soon as you click the blue "Yes" button.
Once you click "Yes", you will be redirected back to the main "Email Campaigns" dashboard. The status of the campaign may say "Processing" if the system is still in the process of sending the campaign to your audience members.
You can refresh the page until you see the status switch to "Sent". At this point, you have successfully sent out the email campaign!



How to create automated email campaigns
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-create-automations

How to create automated email campaigns
BookingKoala
Back To BookingKoala
Search
Open menu
Looking for help?
Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides
BookingKoala Help Center
Marketing
How to create automated email campaigns
Marketing
How to create automated email campaigns
Learn how to create and send out automated email campaigns.
Last updated on 06 Mar, 2025
The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Create a new automated email campaign
What are automated campaigns?
Automated campaigns are SMS or email campaigns that are sent based on specific triggers. Typically, once your automated campaign is set up, no further action is required unless you want to turn it off.
Automated campaigns can be used in a variety of situations.Ā For example, if a customer entered their email but left the booking page before checking out, you can create an automated campaign that is sent once every week until the customer returns to book a service.
Create an Automated Email Campaign
To begin, you will need to access the
Marketing Module
.Ā From the left-side menu, click on:
Marketing > Campaigns
Click on the "
Campaigns
" drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "
Email
", then "
Automated
".
Click the blue "
Create Automation
" button in the top-right corner of the screen.
Enter the
Campaign Name
into the first box, and then select which
Audience(s)
you will connect to this campaign.
Click here
to learn how to create and edit audience lists. Click the blue "
Add
" button to generate the campaign.
You will be brought to the "
Update Automation
" page.Ā To begin setting up your automation triggers and email, click the blue "
Edit & Preview
" just below where it says "
Send Test
".
Basic Information
On the "
Basic Information
" page, enter a
Name
for your email sequence. This will only be seen by you. You can also add a
Description
for your own reference.
Next, enter the
Email Subject
into the box below.Ā If you'd like, you can use
shortcodes
in the email subject to populate a field with custom information.Ā You can insert any of these shortcodesĀby clicking the
copy
button and then pasting them into the
Subject
line.
Below, confirm the "
From
" sender email.Ā Click the blue "
Change
" button to use a different email address to send out this campaign email.Ā You can also enter a "
Sender Name
" and list a separate "
Reply-To
" email if you desire.
Trigger
Next, select a
Trigger
for the campaign.Ā Click the blue "
Change Trigger
" button to see a list of all possible triggers for this first campaign sequence.
The triggers you can select for your
first
email
sequence
are as follows:
Manual Add
: A subscriber is manually added by the admin to an audience list.
Added Through Form
: A subscriber is automatically added to an audience after completing a
booking
,
lead
, or
hiring form
.
Monthly Recurring Campaign
: The subscriber is sent the first sequence on a specific date every month.
When you select this trigger, you have the option of sending the email out on a
specific day
or
date
.ĀIf you'd like to
exclude anyone with an active booking
, check the box next to this option.
Sent Campaign
: A subscriber is sent another specific campaign.
Under "
Settings
", select another
campaign
to trigger your automated campaign.
Opened Campaign
: A subscriber opens another specific campaign.
Under "
Settings
", select another
campaign
to trigger your automated campaign.
Not Opened Campaign
: A subscriber does not open another specific campaign.
Under "
Settings
", select another
campaign
to trigger your automated campaign.
Clicked Campaign
: A subscriber clicks any link in a specific campaign.
Under "
Settings
", select another
campaign
to trigger your automated campaign.
Not Clicked Campaign
: A subscriber does not click any link in a specific campaign.
Under "
Settings
", select another
campaign
to trigger your automated campaign.
Later on, if you set up
additional emails
in your sequence, there are a few more triggers available:
Previous Email Sent
: A subscriber is sent the previous email in this sequence.
Previous Email Opened
: A subscriber opens the previous email in this sequence.
Previous Email Not Opened
: A subscriber does not open the previous email in this sequence.
Previous Email Clicked
: A subscriber clicks any link in the previous email in this sequence.
Previous Email Not Clicked
: A subscriber does not click any link in the previous email in this sequence.
Most triggers have an option under "
Delay
".Ā Click the grey
drop-down box
to select when you would like the campaign to be sent out.
Select "
Immediately
" for the campaign to be sent out to the customer or lead as soon as their email is added to the audience list.
Select "
Hour(s)
" to delay sending out the email by a set number of hours.
Select "
Day(s)
" to delay sending out the email by a set number of days.
Select "
Week(s)
" to delay sending out the email by a set number of weeks.
Most businesses will likely want the email to be sent
immediately
upon adding the lead to the audience.
Schedule
Next, select which
days
the email will be sent out. If you want the email to be sent whenever it had been added, select "
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday
".
Under "
What time should emails be sent?
", you can select one of the following options:
"As soon as possible" -
The system will send out the emails immediately.
"Send at"
Ģ The system will send the emails out starting at a specific time.
If you select this option, pick which
time
the system should start processing your campaign emails.
The checkbox next to "
Exclude anyone who has an active booking
" can be left checked or unchecked depending on your preference. If checked, any existing customers with active bookings will not be sent this campaign email.
At the bottom of the page, click the blue "
Next
" button to proceed to the next section.
Choose Template
In the next section, choose a
template
for your email. Hover over each layout type and click the blue "
Preview
" to see an example of how it looks.
If you have created a
master template
, you can select it by clicking on the "
Saved Templates
" tab at the top of the page.
Once you have selected which template or layout you'd like to use, click the blue "
Next
" button at the bottom right of the screen.
Email Editor
In this section, you can edit the content of your campaign email.
Drag and drop
blocks
into the body of the email to insert different types of elements including
text
,
boxed text
,
dividers
,
images
,
image cards
,
image + text
,
share bar
,
social follow
,
button
,
footer
,
custom
code
, and
video
.
Click/hover over
on any block in the email body to view its
action buttons
.
Switch into the "
Style
" tab to control the font size, color, and general appearance of your email's sections.
Final Steps
Once you are done creating the campaign email, click the blue "
Save and Continue
" button at the top right side of the screen. Your campaign will be saved and you will be brought back to the
Update Automation
page.
If you finished all of the setup steps, the status for the campaign will say "
Active
". This means that this segment of the campaign is ready to be sent out once it has been activated.
Adding Additional Emails
You can add additional campaign emails to any sequence by clicking the blue "
Add More
" button below your first email.
If you need to save your work before finishing a new sequence, click the blue "
Save & Return to Emails
" button at the top right corner of the page and this will save the sequence as a draft.
Export
If you would like to export your template, click the white "
Export
" button at the top right side of the page.
Choose "
Export As HTML
" to export the template as an
HTML
file.Ā The file will begin to download automatically.
Choose "
Export Template
" if you'd like to export the template as a
JSON
file. The file will begin to download automatically.
Preview and Test
Once you are finished formatting the email, you can click the white "
Preview And Test
" button at the top right corner of the page.
Select "
Enter Preview Mode
" to preview your email for
desktop
and
mobile devices
. Click the red
X icon
in the top right corner of the box to exit the preview pop-up.
Select "
Send Test Email
" to email the template to yourself or another interested party. Enter the email address into the box and then click the blue "
Send
" button.Ā If successful, you will see a green system alert in the top right corner letting you know the test email has been sent.
If you receive a
red error message
, the email address you entered has not been verified in the Campaign Module.Ā Once you've saved your draft, go back to the campaign dashboard and select
Settings > Notifications.
Scroll down to the "
Default Send Out Email
" and click the blue "
Change
" button.
A pop-up window will appear.Ā If you have verified other email addresses in your BookingKoala account, you can select "
Already Saved
" to switch to an existing sender email and click "
Update
".
If you need to add a new email address, select "
Add New
" and enter the email into the box below. Click the blue "
Update
" button to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top right corner letting you know a
verification email
has been sent to the new email address.Ā Visit your inbox and complete the process by clicking the
link
in the email.
Click here
for more detailed instructions on how to verify sender email addresses,
Save and Activate Your Campaign
Once you have finished building your full campaign sequence, you save it as a
draft
or activate it right away.
First, click the blue "
Save & Continue
" button in the top-right corner of the page.
You will be redirected to an "
Update Automation
" page. Click the light blue "
Activate
" button to activate the campaign, or select the green "
Update
" button to save it as a draft.
If you have saved the campaign as a draft, you can activate it later on from the
Automated Email Campaigns
list. Inside the Campaign Module, go to:
Campaigns > Email > Automated
Under the "
Actions
" column on the right, click "
Options
", then "
Activate
".Ā A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to activate this campaign. Click "
Yes
" to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the campaign has been activated successfully.
Your campaign is
live
and will send out your campaign email(s) once triggered!
Additional Actions
Once you've activated your campaign, it will continue operating based on the triggers you have selected during the creation process.Ā However, there may be times when you'd like to edit, pause, or even delete an email sequence or the entire campaign.Ā All of these actions can be completed in the
Campaign Module
by going to:
Campaigns > Email > Automated
Pausing a Campaign or Campaign Sequence
If you need to pause the entire campaign for any reason, select "
Options
" under the "
Actions
" column and click "
Pause
".
A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to pause this campaign.Ā Click the blue "
Yes
" button to proceed.ĀĀThis will stop all segments from being sent out until the campaign is resumed.
To resume the campaign, select "
Options
" and click on "
Resume
".
Again, a pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to resume the campaign.Ā Click the blue "
Yes
" button to resume the entire campaign.
If you would like to pause a specific sequence in your SMS campaign, select "
Options
" then "
Edit
" to open the "
Update Automation
" page.
From here, locate the sequence you would like to pause and click the orange "
Pause
" button.
A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to pause this segment.Ā Click the blue "
Yes
" button to proceed.ĀĀThis will stop that particular segment from being sent out until it has been resumed.
Once you are ready to resume the sequence, simply click the orange "
Resume
" button and click "
Yes
" in the following pop-up to proceed.
Editing an Active Campaign or Campaign Sequence
To edit an SMS campaign that has already been activated, you will first need to
Pause
the campaign (or segment) you would like to update by going to
Campaigns > SMS. Automated
.
Next, select "
Options
" and click "
Edit
" to open the "
Update Automation
" page.
When you have paused the entire campaign, this allows you to add new messages to the sequence using the blue "
Add More
" button.
Once you are finished adding sequences, click the blue "
Resume
" button at the top of the page.Ā A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you are ready to resume the campaign.Ā Click the blue "
Yes
" button to proceed.
You do not need to pause the campaign or a sequence to edit it.Ā Simply click the blue "
Edit & Preview
" button next to the campaign segment.
Once you are finished making any changes, be sure to click the blue "
Save & Return To Emails
" button at the top right side of the page.
Deleting a Campaign or Campaign Sequence
To delete an entire SMS campaign, go to the
Campaigns > SMS > Automated
.Ā Select "
Options
", then "
Delete
".
A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to delete this campaign.Ā This means you will no longer be able to access this campaign or its logs again.Ā If you are sure, click the blue "
Yes
" button to proceed.
If you would like to delete a specific sequence in your SMS campaign, select "
Options
" then "
Edit
" to open the "
Update Automation
" page.
From here, locate the sequence you would like to pause and click the red "
Delete
" button.
A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to delete this segment.Ā Once deleted, you will not be able to retrieve or reactivate this segment. If you are sure, click the blue "
Yes
" button to proceed.
Related Articles
How to manage audience lists inside campaigns
Learn how audience lists work inside your campaigns and how to connect them to your forms.
How to create email templates for campaigns
Learn how to create email templates and use them for new campaigns.
How to create manual email campaigns
Learn how to create and send out manual email campaigns.
User activity & campaign insights
Learn more about the audience and user data collected by campaigns.
How to create and edit audience lists
Learn how to modify existing audience lists or create new audiences in the Campaign Module.
Did you find this article helpful?
Yes
No
Previous
How to create automated SMS campaigns
Next
On This Page
What are automated campaigns?
Create an Automated Email Campaign
Final Steps
Additional Actions



How to create automated SMS campaigns
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-create-automated-sms-campaigns

How to create automated SMS campaigns
Learn how to create and send out automated SMS campaigns.

Last updated on 23 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:

Ģ Create a new automated SMS campaign

What are automated campaigns?
Automated campaigns are SMS or email campaigns that are sent based on specific triggers. Typically, once your automated campaign is set up, no further action is required unless you want to turn it off.

Automated campaigns can be used in a variety of situations.  For example, if a customer entered their email but left the booking page before checking out, you can create an automated campaign that is sent once every week until the customer returns to book a service.

Connect Your Twilio Account
To create and send out SMS campaigns, you will first need to connect your Twilio account to the Campaign Module .

If you do not have a Twilio account yet, click here to learn how to set one up.

To begin, you will need to access the Campaign Module .  From the left-side menu, click on:

Marketing > Campaigns

Next, select the " Settings " tab at the top right corner of the page and click on " Notifications ".

Scroll down to the bottom of this page until you see the " Default send out phone number " section.

You will need to enter your Account ID , API Key (auth code) , and Phone Number into the corresponding boxes.

If you've previously connected your Twilio account to send out system notifications , you can easily copy and paste these codes directly into this section.  You can view your Twilio integration keys by going to the main admin dashboard and clicking:

Settings > Notifications > General

Scroll down to the bottom of the page and copy each code from the " SMS Settings " section.

If you have not integrated Twilio with BookingKoala yet, you can find these keys by visiting your Twilio dashboard .  Once you are on your dashboard, scroll down to the bottom of the page and locate the " Account Info " section.

All of the information you need is located in this section.  Copy and paste each code in to the corresponding boxes in the Campaign Module.

Ģ The " Account SID " in Twilio goes into the " Account ID " box in BookingKoala.
Ģ To copy your " Auth Token" , you will need to click the " Show " link to the right of the box.  The "Auth Token" goes into the "API Key" box in BookingKoala.
Ģ Make sure " My Twilio phone number " from Twilio is entered exactly as pictured into the " Phone Number " box in BookingKoala.

? For example, " +15672299756 " is correct .
? "15672299756" is incorrect.
? "5672299756" is incorrect.
? "+1(567)2299756" is incorrect.
? "+1-567-229-9756"is incorrect.

Finally, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom right corner of the screen.

A green system alert will appear in the top right corner, letting you know that your account has been connected successfully.  From here, you are ready to begin building SMS campaigns.

Create an Automated SMS Campaign
To begin, you will need to access the Marketing Module .  From the left-side menu, click on:

Marketing > Campaigns

Click on the " Campaigns " drop-down menu at the top of the page and select " SMS ", then " Automated ".

Click the blue " Create Automation " button in the top-right corner of the screen.

Enter the Campaign Name into the first box, and then select which Audience(s) you will connect to this campaign. Click here to learn how to create and edit audience lists. Click the blue " Add " button to generate the campaign.

You will be brought to the " Update Automation " page.  To begin setting up your automation triggers and message, click the blue " Edit & Preview " just below where it says " Send Test ".

Basic Information

On the " Basic Information " page, enter a Name for your SMS sequence. This will only be seen by you. You can also add a Description for your own reference.  The " Sender Phone Number" will be the Twilio number you set up earlier in the Campaign Module Settings section.

Next, create your campaign's content by entering text into the " Message " box.

Ģ Click on the link icon to add a link to the message.
Ģ Click the " Insert Short Codes " button to add a shortcode to the template.  

Ģ Click " Insert " or " Copy " to use the shortcode in your message.  

Ģ The shortcodes available for use in the SMS templates are:

? {{.StoreName}} - Displays your store name.
? {{.SupportEmail}} - Displays your support email.
? {{.SupportPhone}} - Displays your support phone number (as set under the General Store Options).
? {{.SiteUrl}} -  Displays your site's url.
? {{.CurrentDate}} - Displays the current date (the format and timezone will be set according to your General Store Options).
? {{.CurrentYear}} - Displays the current year (the timezone will be set according to your General Store Options).
? {{.ContactFirstName}} - Displays the contact's first name.
? {{.ContactLastName}} - Displays the contact's last name.
? {{.ContactFullName}} - Displays the contact's full name.
? {{.ContactEmailId}} - Displays the contact's email address.
? {{.ContactPhone}} - Displays the contact's phone number.
Ģ Click the " Choose Template " button to add a custom or pre-built template to the message box.  A menu will appear on the right side of the page with two tabs, " Custom " and " Basic ".

? Click on " Custom " to view any SMS templates you have saved.
? Click here to learn more about how to make SMS templates in the Campaign Module.
? Click on " Basic " to view a list of pre-built SMS templates.
? Select the template you would like to insert and click on the light blue " Save & Close " button.  The template will be inserted into the message box.

Trigger

Next, select a Trigger for the campaign.  Click the blue " Change Trigger " button to see a list of all possible triggers for this first campaign sequence.

The triggers you can select for your first SMS sequence are as follows:

Ģ Manual Add : A subscriber is manually added by the admin to an audience list.
Ģ Added Through Form : A subscriber is automatically added to an audience after completing a booking, lead, or hiring form.
Ģ Monthly Recurring Campaign : The subscriber is sent the first sequence on a specific date every month.

? When you select this trigger, you have the option of sending the SMS out on a specific day or date . If you'd like to exclude anyone with an active booking , check the box next to this option.
Ģ Sent Campaign : A subscriber is sent another specific campaign.

? Under " Settings ", select another campaign to trigger your automated campaign.

Later on, if you set up additional messages in your sequence, there is another trigger available:

Ģ Previous SMS Sent : A subscriber is sent the previous SMS in this sequence.

Most triggers have an option under " Delay ".  Click the grey drop-down box to select when you would like the campaign to be sent out.

Ģ Select " Immediately " for the campaign to be sent out to the customer or lead as soon as their phone number is added to the audience list.
Ģ Select " Hour(s) " to delay sending out the SMS by a set number of hours.
Ģ Select " Day(s) " to delay sending out the SMS by a set number of days.
Ģ Select " Week(s) " to delay sending out the SMS by a set number of weeks.

Most businesses will likely want the SMS to be sent immediately upon adding the lead to the audience.

Schedule

Next, select which days the SMS will be sent out. If you want the SMS to be sent whenever it had been added, select " Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday ".

Under " What time should this SMS be sent? ", you can select one of the following options:

Ģ "As soon as possible" - The system will send out the SMS immediately.
Ģ "Send at" - The system will send the SMS starting at a specific time.

? If you select this option, pick which time the system should start processing your campaign message.

The checkbox next to " Exclude anyone who has an active booking " can be left checked or unchecked depending on your preference. If checked, any existing customers with active bookings will not be sent this campaign SMS.

Final Steps
Once you are done creating the campaign SMS, click the blue " Save" button at the bottom right side of the screen. Your campaign will be saved and you will be brought back to the Update Automation page.

If you finished all of the setup steps, the status for the campaign will say " Active ". This means that this segment of the campaign is ready to be sent out once it has been activated.

Adding Additional Messages

You can add additional campaign messages to any sequence by clicking the blue " Add More " button below your first message.

If you need to save your work before finishing a new sequence, click the blue " Save " button at the bottom of the page and this will save the sequence as a draft.

Send Test SMS

Once you are finished formatting a sequence in your campaign, you can click the grey " Send Test " button to the right of the segment to send yourself or another interested party a preview of the message.

Ģ Enter a phone number into the box and then click the blue " Send " button.  If successful, you will see a green system alert in the top right corner letting you know the test SMS has been sent.

Save and Activate Your Campaign

Once you have finished building your full campaign sequence, you save it as a draft or activate it right away.

At the top of the " Update Automation " page, click the light blue " Activate " button to activate the campaign, or select the green " Update " button to save it as a draft.

If you have saved the campaign as a draft, you can activate it later on from the Automated SMS Campaigns list. Inside the Campaign Module, go to:

Campaigns > SMS > Automated

Under the " Actions " column on the right, click " Options ", then " Edit ".

Next, click the blue " Activate " button at the top of the page.  A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to activate this campaign. Click " Yes " to proceed.

A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the campaign has been activated successfully. Your campaign is live and will send out your campaign email(s) once triggered!

Additional Actions
Once you've activated your campaign, it will continue operating based on the triggers you have selected during the creation process.  However, there may be times when you'd like to edit, pause, or even delete an SMS sequence or the entire campaign.  All of these actions can be completed in the Campaign Module by going to:

Campaigns > SMS > Automated

Pausing a Campaign or Campaign Sequence

If you need to pause the entire campaign for any reason, select " Options " under the " Actions " column and click " Pause ".

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to pause this campaign.  Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.  This will stop all segments from being sent out until the campaign is resumed.

To resume the campaign, select " Options " and click on " Resume ".

Again, a pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to resume the campaign.  Click the blue " Yes " button to resume the entire campaign.

If you would like to pause a specific sequence in your SMS campaign, select " Options " then " Edit " to open the " Update Automation " page.

From here, locate the sequence you would like to pause and click the orange " Pause " button.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to pause this segment.  Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.  This will stop that particular segment from being sent out until it has been resumed.

Once you are ready to resume the sequence, simply click the orange " Resume " button and click " Yes " in the following pop-up to proceed.

Editing an Active Campaign or Campaign Sequence

To edit an SMS campaign that has already been activated, you will first need to Pause the campaign (or segment) you would like to update by going to Campaigns > SMS. Automated .

Next, select " Options " and click " Edit " to open the " Update Automation " page.

When you have paused the entire campaign, this allows you to add new messages to the sequence using the blue " Add More " button.

Once you are finished adding sequences, click the blue " Resume " button at the top of the page.  A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you are ready to resume the campaign.  Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.

You do not need to pause the campaign or a sequence to edit it.  Simply click the blue " Edit & Preview " button next to the campaign segment.

Once you are finished making any changes, be sure to click the blue "Save" button at the bottom right side of the page.

Deleting a Campaign or Campaign Sequence

To delete an entire SMS campaign, go to the Campaigns > SMS > Automated .  Select " Options ", then " Delete ".

A pop-up will ask if you are sure you want to delete this campaign.  This means you will no longer be able to access this campaign or its logs again.  If you are sure, click the blue " Yes " button to proceed.

If you would like to delete a specific sequence in your SMS campaign, select " Options " then " Edit " to open the " Update Automation " page.

From here, locate the sequence you would like to pause and click the red " Delete " button.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to delete this segment. Click the blue " Yes " button to proceed. This will permanently delete this segment from the campaign.



User activity & campaign insights
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/more-information-regarding-audiences-inside-campaigns

User activity & campaign insights
Learn more about the audience and user data collected by campaigns.

Last updated on 23 Jun, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How to view campaign activity in the Campaign Module
Ģ What user data is collected from your audiences
Ģ How to gain additional campaign insights

Campaign Activity
Campaign Stats

Once you have sent out your first email or SMS campaign, you'll be able to track several important pieces of information:
Ģ How many people the campaign was sent to
Ģ How many users opened the campaign
Ģ How many users clicked the link in the campaign (email campaigns only)
Ģ How many bookings resulted from the campaign
Ģ How many contacts are queued for a campaign (automatic campaigns only)

To view this information for manual email campaigns, go to: Campaigns > Email > Campaigns

This information for manual SMS campaigns is displayed in the same fashion. Go to: Campaigns > SMS > Campaigns

To view this data for automated email campaigns, go to: Campaigns > Email > Automations Select "Options", then "Edit" to the right of the campaign in which you'd like to view stats.

To view this data for automated SMS campaigns, go to: Campaigns > SMS > Automations Select "Options", then "Edit" to the right of the campaign in which you'd like to view stats.

Campaign Logs

In addition, each campaign contains a campaign logs section so you can specifically see:
Ģ Which users received the campaign email(s) or SMS message(s)
Ģ If any emails or phone numbers bounced
Ģ Which users clicked the campaign link (emails campaigns only)
Ģ If any customers booked as a result of the campaign

To view this information for email campaigns, go to: Campaigns > Email > Campaigns Select "Options" and then click on "Campaign Logs".

The same option is available for automated email campaigns by going to: Campaigns > Email > Automations

On the "Email Logs" page, there are several different actions you can take in addition to viewing the logs.
1283 Search - Enter a name, phone number, or email address to search for specific logs.
1284 Filter - Use the filter to view only view logs that have been delivered, opened, clocked, or booked.
1285 Resend to Unopens - Click this button to resent the campaign to all recipients who did not open the campaign.
1286 Checkboxes - Check the boxes to the left of specific logs to select which contacts you'd like to resent the campaign to.
1287 Resend Button - Click this button to resend the campaign to the selected contacts.
1288 Resend Icon - Click this icon to the right of an individual log to resend the campaign.
1289 View Icon - Click this icon to view the contact's campaign profile (discussed later in this article).

To view logs for SMS campaigns, go to: Campaigns > SMS > Campaigns Select "Options" and then click on "Campaign Logs".

The same option is available for automated SMS campaigns by going to: Campaigns > SMS > Automations

On the "SMS Logs" page, there are several different actions you can take in addition to viewing the logs.
1290 Search - Enter a name, phone number, or email address to search for specific logs.
1291 Filter - Use the filter to view only view logs that have been delivered, opened, clocked, or booked.
1292 Checkboxes - Check the boxes to the left of specific logs to select which contacts you'd like to resent the campaign to.
1293 Resend Button - Click this button to resend the campaign to the selected contacts.
1294 Resend Icon - Click this icon to the right of an individual log to resend the campaign.
1295 View Icon - Click this icon to view the contact's campaign profile (discussed later in this article).

Audience and User Activity
You can also track campaign activity per lead/client. Inside each audience, you can see if a user booked, bought gift cards, or simply opened your campaigns.

View Contacts

To begin, go to the "Audience" tab and click on "Options", then "View Contacts" under the "Actions" column.
You will be redirected to the "Contacts" page.
Here, you can see which user information has been collected, the date it was added to the list, and if the user is currently subscribed or unsubscribed.

Bulk Actions

You may notice there are checkboxes located next to each of the rows in your audience. Once you select one or more contacts, an "Actions" menu will appear on the top right corner of the page.
This menu allows you to do the following actions for one or more contacts:
Ģ Subscribe unsubscribed contact(s)
Ģ Unsubscribe subscribed contact(s)
Ģ Delete contact(s) from the audience
Ģ Copy contact(s) to another audience
Ģ Move contact(s) to another audience

Action Buttons

There are also several action buttons located under the "Actions" column to the far right of every contact.
Click on thetrash can iconto delete a user from the list.
Click theeye icon to view a detailed profile of the user's campaign profile.

Here, you can view the following data:
Ģ Created on - The date the user was first created or tracked by the list.
Ģ Open rate - How many times the user has opened your campaigns.
Ģ Click rate - How many times the user has clicked a link inside your campaigns.
Ģ Activity feed - Displays all campaign-related activities.
Ģ Logs - Displays all email or SMS campaigns sent to the user.
Ģ Audiences - Shows which audience(s) this user is subscribed to.

Campaign Insights
To see statistics on the overall performance of your campaigns, click on the "Insights" tab at the top of the Campaign Module.
At the top of this section, you can view yourtotal revenue from all campaigns, as well as the total number of bookings that have resulted from clicks inside a campaign.

Below, there are three main tabs to view more specific reports:
1296 General
1297 Campaigns
1298 Audience

General

Once you click on the "General" tab, select a date range using the option at the top of the page. You can click on two specific dates to select a custom range, or select one of the pre-defined ranges from the side menu.

The Contacts Report displays all the contacts you've been collecting.
Ģ If a new user is added to a list, it will be counted as a contact regardless of it you collected their email, phone number, or both.
Ģ If a user switches between audience lists or is added to a new list, they will still be counted as one total user in this report.
Ģ If a user unsubscribes or is deleted from an audience list, the contact will be subtracted from this report unless they remain active in a separate list.
Ģ Keep in mind that this report displays data for the selected date range at the top of the section.

The Revenue from Campaigns Report displays revenue for all of your campaigns combined.
Ģ For example, if you earn $200 in revenue from bookings generated in one campaign and $300 from another, the total revenue would be for all campaigns would be $500.
Ģ If bookings are canceled or voided, the report will automatically adjust and remove revenue from these bookings.
Ģ If a recurring service is booked, each booking in the service will be counted towards your revenue.
Ģ Keep in mind that this report displays data for the selected date range at the top of the section.

The Form(s) Performance Report displays the success rate of each form you use in terms of gathering new contacts.
Ģ If a form is designed to capture emails only, this report will count every new email gathered through that form.
Ģ If a form collects both emails and phone numbers, the report will display a column for phone numbers (in blue) and another for email addresses (in green).
Ģ If a user enters both their email address and phone number into a form, this report will display that the form has captured 1 email and 1 phone number.
Ģ Keep in mind that this report displays data for the selected date range at the top of the section.

Campaigns

Once you click on the "Campaigns" tab, you can use the drop-down menu on the top left side to view data for all campaigns or a specific campaign.
You will also select adate rangeusing the option at the top of the page. You can click on two specific dates to select a custom range or select one of the pre-defined ranges from the side menu.
Use the "Email/SMS" tabs to select which campaigns you would like to view data for.

Below, you can view the following information for the selected campaign(s) and date range:
Ģ Scheduled - Displays how many emails or messages are scheduled but have not been sent out yet.
Ģ Total - Displays how many campaign emails or messages have been sent out.
Ģ Bookings - Displays how many bookings resulted from email or SMS campaigns. If a user books a recurring service and they have two bookings during your selected date range, it would count as two separate bookings.
Ģ Revenue - Displays how much revenue has been earned during the date range. If a user books a recurring service and they have two bookings during your selected date range, it will count the revenue from both bookings.

Below, the Email Statistics Report shows how many emails or messages were sent out, bounced, opened, clicked, resulted in bookings, gift card purchases, and unsubscribed during the selected period.

Audience

Once you click on the "Campaigns" tab, you can use the drop-down menu on the top left side to view data for all audiences or a specific audience list.
You will also select adate range using the option at the top of the page. You can click on two specific dates to select a custom range or select one of the pre-defined ranges from the side menu.

The first section in the report displays how many contacts have been collected Today.
The second section "Total Contacts", displays how many contacts have been collected in your chosen date range.
Ģ Each user equals one contact.
Ģ If one user enters both an email and a phone number, the emails will increase by one and the phone numbers count will increase by one.

To the right of this section, you can view the Recent Activity section.
Ģ Scroll through the list to view all activities from the past day.
Ģ Click the blue "View All" button at the top-right corner to be directed to the System Logs section.

A link to the System Logs section is also located at the top of the Campaign Module's menu.

Finally, the All Contacts Report shows how many contacts have subscribed (in green) and unsubscribed (in red) for the dates in your selected date range.



Blog overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/blog-overview

Blog overview
Learn how to use the blog feature, including how to add, manage, and delete blog posts.

Last updated on 11 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Add the blog to your BookingKoala website
Ģ Add a new blog article
Ģ Delete an old blog article
Ģ Add a category to your blog
Ģ Add a new author to your blog
Ģ Change the blog comment settings
Ģ Reorder your blog posts

Adding A Blog To Your Site
To add a blog to your website, you will need to access the Website and Theme Builder. To do so, go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Then, click on the orange "Customize Theme" button to open the website builder.

Once you are inside the website builder you will need to go to the top of the page where it has the "Page" tab dropdown menu.

Once the dropdown appears go to the bottom and select "Manage Pages".

Now a side menu will appear on the left-hand side, go to the bottom and select "Add Page".

Next, a pop-up will appear asking you to name the new page, name it "Blog" and then click "Save".

Now you will have a blank page with "Your Content Here" across the middle, when you hover over it there will be an outlining orange box with a + Add Section button on top and bottom of the outlined area, here you can add a new section.

To add a new section click on the + Add Section button at the top of the outlined box and a side menu will appear with all the sections.

To add the blog section you will scroll down until you find "Blog".

Once clicked you can see the options for the blog, you will hover over the one you want and click "Add This Section" and it will add it to your page.

Finally, you can add a link to your blog in your header or footer so guests can easily access it. Click here for instructions on how to add a page to your header or footer.

To finish, you will click "Save and Publish".

Where are my articles located?
When you are on your dashboard, go to: Marketing > Blog

You will be redirected to the general blog posts section.

How do I add a new blog post?
Click here to learn how to add a new blog post.

Once inside you will be able to add the title, write the post, add images, change the author, set the publish date, and more!

How do I delete a blog post?
When you are in the general blog post section, there are two ways of doing so.

The first way is to go to the blog post that you want to delete and go to the "Action" column on the right-hand side.

Then find the trash can icon which is in the middle of the 3 icons.

Then a pop-up will appear asking you "Are you sure you want to move this blog post to the trash?".

Click "Yes".

The second way is to bulk delete posts. You will click on the white square at the top of the page next to "Title" to select the posts you would like to remove from your blog.

Next, go to the drop-down at the top of the page where it says "Bulk Actions".

Select "Move To Trash" then click the "Apply" button.

A pop-up will appear saying "Are you sure you want to move to trash the selected posts?".

Click "Yes".

Your posts will now be moved into the "Trash" section. They will no longer appear on your blog, however, they will not be permanently deleted unless you go to the "Trash" section and select Options then Delete.

How do I add a category to my blog?
Go to the "Blog" drop-down in the top left-hand corner.

Then select "Categories".

Next, click the blue "Add Category" button on the top right-hand side.

Now you can add the name and a description if you would like one.

Just be sure to click "Save Category" once you have finished.

How do I add an author to my blog?
Go to the "Authors" drop-down in the top left-hand corner.

Next, select "Add Author".

Here you can add the name, email, and picture and make them the default author if desired.

Click the blue Save button once you are finished entering the new author's information.

How do I change the blog comment settings?
Go to the "Blog Settings" drop-down in the top left-hand corner.

Inside here you will be able to change the comment settings.

Ģ Hide date from blog - Remove all the dates from your blog posts.
Ģ Allow comments - Allow people to comment on your blog posts.
Ģ Allow anonymous comments - Allow people to comment without having to provide a name.
Ģ Allow replies to comments - Allow people to reply to comments on your blog posts.
Ģ The author must fill out name and email when adding a comment - Require commentors to provide both a name and email address when leaving a comment.
Ģ A comment is held for approval - Set up a comment approval system where comments are not posted to your blog until you approve of them.
Ģ Notify me when someone leaves a comment - Set up notifications to an email address of your choosing whenever someone posts a comment or reply on your blog.
Ģ Automatically publish to Facebook? - If you have connected a Facebook API, automatically publish your blog posts to your Facebook page or group.

If you make any changes, please be sure to click on the "Save Settings" button at the bottom right corner of the screen.

How can I reorder my blog posts?
First, go to the "Blog" drop-down in the top left-hand corner.

Next, select "Organize Blog Posts".

Here you can drag and drop the posts in the order you want them.

Once you have finalized the order of your blog posts, click the "Update Order" button. A green system notification will confirm that the order has been updated successfully.



Adding a new blog post
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/adding-a-new-blog-post

Adding a new blog post
Learn how to add a new blog post to your blog.

Last updated on 09 Jul, 2024

In this article you will learn:
Ģ How to add a new blog post

How to Add a New Blog Post
First, you must access the Blog section from the main menu by going to:

Marketing > Blog

Once you are on the main Blog dashboard, there are two different places you can click to add a new blog post. The first is by using the left-side menu to select Blog and then Add Blog Post, and the second is to click the blue "Add Blog Post" button on the Blog Posts page.

If you have translated your blog posts into multiple languages, a pop-up will confirm which language you want the new post to be in. After selecting a language, click the "Create" button.

You will be redirected to an "Add new blog post" page. Here, you can construct the blog post and the search engine preview listing.

1299 First, create a title for the blog post.
1300 Next, select an author for the post. The authors can be managed under the Authors section of the menu.
1301 The publish date can be left as today's date or set to a date in the past.
1302 The featured image will be displayed at the top of the post beneath the title.
1303 The excerpt will be displayed on your main blog page as part of a preview of the post.
1304 The banner image will be displayed along the top of the blog post.
1305 The page title of the search engine listing preview can be the same as your blog title or you can use something different.
1306 The blog URL will also be based on your page title, although it can be changed if desired.
1307 The meta description will be the description listed below the title and URL in search results.
1308 For "Should this post be indexed in the search engines", you can select "Yes" or "No" depending on your preference.
1309 The blog categories can be checked according to the type of post you are making.
1310 The Facebook share image will be the image shown when the blog post is shared on Facebook.
1311 The Google preview shows what the blog post will look like as a search result on Google.
1312 At the very bottom of the page, the Settings for the post have several different options:
? Allow comments - When checked, visitors are allowed to leave comments on this blog post.
? Allow to show on blog - When checked, this blog post will be visible in the Blog section of your website.
? Allow to show on category page - When checked, this blog post will be visible under the selected category page of your blog.
? Allow to show under author's page - When checked, this blog post will be visible under the author's page of your blog.

At the very bottom of the page, you can click the orange "Draft" button to save the post as a draft, or you can click the blue "Save" button to publish the post.



Changing the author of a blog post
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/changing-the-author-of-a-blog-post

Changing the author of a blog post
Learn how to change the author of a blog post.

Last updated on 11 Jul, 2024

In this article, you will learn how to:
Ģ Change the author of a blog post in your BookingKoala blog

How to Change the Author of a Blog Post
First, open the blog section by going to: Marketing > Blog

You will be redirected to the general blog posts section.

If you haven't done so yet, add the author to the author's section by clicking "Authors" and then "Add Author".

Add a name, email address, bio/description, and a profile picture to create the author profile. You can also check the box next to "Make default" if you'd like this author to be the default author of all new blog posts.

Once finished, click the blue "Save" button to save the author to the authors' section.

Next, go to "Blog" and select "Blog Posts".

Locate the blog post whose author you want to change, and select "Options" then "Edit" to open the blog post.

Once inside the post, look for the "Author" field under where it says "Meta" and select the new author.

Then, click the blue Save button. A green system notification will appear in the top right corner confirming that the blog post has been updated successfully.



Campaign notification settings
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/campaign-notifications-settings

Campaign notification settings
Learn how to set up your Campaign Module notification settings.

Last updated on 03 Sept, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ How to disable the unsubscribe link from emails, SMS, or both
Ģ Hot to edit your Campaign footer signature
Ģ How to set up your sender email address name and email
Ģ How to set up your sender phone number

Locating the Campaign Notification Settings
To open the Campaign Module, go to the main menu on the left of your Dashboard and click on the "Marketing" tab. Then, select "Campaigns".
You will be redirected to the Campaign Module dashboard. From here, click on Settings then Notifications. You will be directed to the Lead Notifications page.

Sender Email Address Name
First, enter the name you would like displayed when sending out campaign emails.

Unsubscribe Link Text
Next, enter the text you would like displayed for the unsubscribe link in your texts and emails.

Remove Unsubscribe Link from Campaigns
If you would like to remove the unsubscribe link from your campaigns, you can select "Email", "SMS", or "Both". If you would like to keep the unsubscribe link at the bottom/end of your campaigns, please select "None".

Footer Signature
You can set up your footer signature by entering text into the field below.

Default Send-Out Email
Next, verify that your send-out email address is correct. If you'd like to use a different email address to send out your campaign emails, click the blue "Change" button.

Please note that for the campaign module, the system does not allow the use of a public domain email ID. We recommend you use a business email ID. If you don't have one, you can purchase a new business email ID. Additionally, you can use the links below to explore domain email options if you do not have a custom domain.
Ģ To set up a professional email address with Google Workspace.
Ģ To set up a business email hosted by GoDaddy.
Ģ To see business email packages by Microsoft 365.

Default Send-Out Phone Number
If you would like to use a different send-out phone number than the one you use for general SMS notifications, you can enter your Twilio credentials into the fields below.
Click here for detailed instructions on how to connect your Twilio account to BookingKoala.



UTM parameters and tracking URLs
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/utms

UTM parameters and tracking URLs
Learn about UTM tracking URLs and how to construct them using the BookingKoala UTM builder.

Last updated on 31 Dec, 2024

In this article, you will learn:
Ģ What UTM parameters are
Ģ How to create a UTM tracking URL

UTMs and Tracking URLs
Short for ōUrchin Tracking Moduleö, UTM parameters added to tracking URLs are crucial tools for understanding your website traffic. After all, it's important to know where your audience is coming from, and how your marketing campaigns perform.

Tracking URLs, which are normal URLs with parameters attached, helps you measure the effectiveness of your marketing campaigns. URL links with UTM allow you to track performance data about specific online campaigns like Facebook, Google Ads, etc. With UTMs, you can also analyze traffic from referrals and SEO backlinks.

You gain valuable insights into your traffic sources by integrating UTM tracking into the Leads Module. With every form submission, the UTM parameters are logged and included in the Reports section in the UTM parameter widget. You can then analyze which sources and campaigns are driving the most leads and use this data to:
Ģ Optimize marketing strategies for the highest-converting platforms.
Ģ Identify trends in customer behavior and tailor your messaging.
Ģ Project target audience growth and refine campaign efforts to increase the number of leads.

This functionality lets you decide where to allocate your marketing resources for the best return on investment.

Using the BookingKoala UTM Builder
To access the UTM Builder, please click here or open the Settings section of a Leads form by going to:

Leads > Forms > Options > Edit > Settings tab > Build UTM parameters button

To build a UTM tracking URL, enter a website URL into the topmost field. If you click on the Build UTM parameters button from a specific form, that form's URL will automatically be copied into the box.

Then, specify your UTM parameters. These parameters include six pieces of information:
Ģ UTM source
Ģ UTM medium
Ģ UTM campaign
Ģ UTM ID
Ģ UTM term
Ģ UTM content

The UTM source parameter is a parameter in UTM tracking used to identify the traffic source to your website. For example, if you run a Google campaign, you might use ōGoogleö as the utm_source.

The UTM medium parameter is used to identify the medium that sends the traffic to your website. For example, you might use ōemailö or ōCPCö as your utm_medium.

The UTM campaign parameter identifies a specific campaign and allows you to track the campaign's performance as a whole and compare it to other campaigns you are running. For example, if you are running a Spring sale campaign, you might add "??utm_campaign=spring_promoö to the end of the landing page URL for the campaign.

The UTM ID parameter is used to add a unique identifier for your campaign. For example, your utm_id may be "42".

The UTM term parameter is used to identify keywords that trigger a paid search ad. For example, if you run a marketing campaign with the keyword ōbathing suitö you might add "??utm_term=bathing+suitö to the end of the landing page URL for the ad.

The UTM content parameter can be used to identify specific content variations within a marketing campaign. For example, if you have multiple ads running on a page, you can add utm_content like ōWinter1ö and ōWinter2ö to differentiate between them.

Generally, it is suggested to keep your UTM parameters as concise as possible so they are easy to understand and do not get cut off by certain web browsers.

Once youÆve entered content into each field, click the ōGenerateö button at the bottom of the page. A tracking URL with your UTM parameters will be generated in the box on the right side of the page.

From here, you can copy and use this tracking URL across various promotional channels to accurately track their performance. You can use this link in:
Ģ Email campaigns
Ģ SMS campaigns
Ģ Google Ads
Ģ Facebook Ads
Ģ Twitter (X)
Ģ Etc.



16. Hiring
Articles in this collection (23):

1313 Hiring module overview
1314 How to set up hiring forms
1315 How to set up hiring quizzes
1316 How to set up contracts
1317 How to set up funnels
1318 How to edit your funnels
1319 How to add a prospect
1320 How to automatically reject prospects
1321 How to set up canned responses
1322 How to set up hiring notifications
1323 How do funnel statuses work
1324 How to schedule interviews
1325 How to create a provider or staff member directly from the hiring module
1326 How to send out a quiz
1327 How to send out a hiring form
1328 How to send out a contract
1329 How to send emails and SMS messages to a prospect
1330 How to send out campaigns from inside the hiring module
1331 How to grade quizzes
1332 How to add a hiring form to your website
1333 Hiring reports explained
1334 Hiring settings explained
1335 Use two "thank you" pages to attract more qualified leads



Hiring module overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/hiring-module-overview

Hiring module overview
Learn more about what the hiring module is and how to use it to hire and onboard prospects.

Last updated on 12 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn more about:
Ģ What the hiring module can be used for
Ģ Which BookingKoala subscriptions include the hiring module
Ģ How to access the hiring module

What is the hiring module?
The Hiring Module is a section in your main BookingKoala dashboard. This module is designed to help you automate your hiring as much as possible, whether it is hiring a provider for your service or trying to hire a staff member for your office.

The hiring module benefits businesses of all sizes because it streamlines and automates the hiring process, leading to increased efficiency, better candidate engagement, and improved decision-making.

Ģ Build a hiring funnel to track your applicants' progress
Ģ Connect the campaign module to automate steps of your hiring funnel
Ģ Build a hiring form that auto-rejects unqualified candidates
Ģ Create quizzes that grade themselves
Ģ Send and sign contracts to prospects
Ģ Send emails and SMS directly from the hiring module
Ģ Create provider or staff accounts instantly

There are sections within the hiring module to help with each step of the way. By consolidating all of your hiring steps into one software, you will save time and money.

Forms The hiring module uses Formsfor your prospects to fill out. Forms can be customized to collect any type of information you need throughout the hiring process.
For example, you can build a form to collect your applicant's information and qualifications before scheduling an interview. Forms could also be used to follow up with new hires to see if they have questions or feedback.
You can share a form by sending the link to a prospect or pasting it in an online hiring ad.
You can also embed forms to drive leads directly to your website.
You can control which fields go into the form and even set up automatic rejection of prospects if they select an answer that would disqualify them from the application process.

Prospects There is also a Prospectssection in the hiring module. A prospect is any lead you have added to your hiring module. Prospects are involved in any step of your hiring process: whether you are at the recruitment stage, reviewing applications and materials, or onboarding.
Once a lead fills out a form, they will be automatically added to the prospects section. You can also manually add prospects yourself.
Prospects can be sent emails and SMS messages directly from the hiring module.
You can create and save canned (pre-made) responses to send to your prospects.
When you are ready to hire a prospect, you can create their provider or staff account from inside the hiring module. Your prospect's new account will be automatically imported into theProviders or Staff section of your main Bookingkoala dashboard.

Onboarding The Onboarding section displays your hiring funnels. A Funnelis the framework of your hiring process broken down into steps and tasks. You can create a funnel inside the hiring module to help track your prospects and see how far along they are in the process.
A funnel begins with collecting your prospect's information and qualifications with the final goal being to onboard a new hire. You can create multiple funnels to stay more organized if you are hiring for different positions.
Each step inside your funnel can be customized to suit your company's process.
You can also send outCampaigns from inside your funnel steps. Add new prospects to an Audienceand automatically send them emails based on which step needs to be completed next.
Steps can be updated with a status to keep track of how far along each prospect is.

Interviews A common step in any onboarding funnel is to interview the prospect. The Interviews section allows you to schedule and manage interviews with your leads.

Quizzes The hiring module also has a section where you can build and send out Quizzesto your prospects. You can create a quiz to test the knowledge of your prospects and receive the results once they have been submitted.
For example, you can incorporate a quiz into your onboarding process to make sure each prospect understands all of your company's policies and procedures before sending them an employment contract.
Once a quiz is completed, you can view it from inside the hiring module. You even have the option to edit the grade inside a quiz.

Contracts Another section in the hiring module is called Contracts. Contracts are an important part of the onboarding process and state the terms and elements your prospect must agree with to work with your company.
You can upload a PDF and populate it with fields to use for your applicants or build a custom contract from scratch.
Once you have finished setting up your contracts, you can send them out directly from the hiring module.

Reports The hiring module also contains a Reports section. The reports section shows a breakdown of how many prospects have been added, rejected, and onboarded.

Settings The Settings section contains options to further customize your Forms, Notifications, Logs, and general Settings.

Who has access to the hiring module?
The hiring module is included in your account if you have a Growing or Premium subscription to BookingKoala.

Please note: If you have a Growing subscription, only the "Prospects" and "Forms" sections are available in your hiring module. Any settings or sections not included in your plan will be blocked.

All sections are available for those with a Premium subscription.

How do I access the hiring module?
To open the hiring module, go to the main menu on the left of your Dashboard and click "Hiring".
You will be redirected to the hiring module.



How to set up hiring forms
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-hiring-forms

BookingKoala

Back To BookingKoala

SearchOpen menu

Looking for help?

Search for articles, videos, and step-by-step instruction guides

[

BookingKoala Help Center](https://help.bookingkoala.com)

Hiring

How to set up hiring forms

Hiring

How to set up hiring forms
Learn more about hiring forms including how to build a form, customize elements, and control form settings.

Last updated on 17 Jul, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ What are hiring forms
Ģ Where to find forms in the hiring module
Ģ How to create a new form
Ģ How to add elements to a form
Ģ Where to control form settings
Ģ Publishing your form

What are hiring forms?
You can create formsĀin the Hiring Module for prospective candidates to fill out.Ā Forms can be customized to collect any type of information you need throughout the hiring process.

For example, you can build a form to collect your applicant's information and qualifications before scheduling an interview. Forms could also be used to follow up with new hires to see if they have questions or feedback.

Where are the form settings?
To create, edit, or delete your hiring forms, go to:

Hiring > Settings > Forms



All forms will be listed under the Prospects tab.Ā The default view will display any active forms that are currently in use.Ā If you'd like to view archived forms or draft forms, click the drop-down menu where it says Active Forms.



How do I create a new form?
To build a new form, click the blue Create NewĀbutton in the top-right corner of the Forms page.

A pop-up window will ask you to enter the form name. This can be edited later as well. Once you have entered the name, click Next to continue.



You can also add a new form directly from the Prospects section.



Click "Create New Form" to beĀbrought to the form builder page.

The form builder contains different types of elements that can be inserted into the form to create content.Ā By default, every form will have the required fields for First Name, Last Name, Email, and Phone Number.Ā This is to ensure that your prospects' forms are properly linked to their profile.

Adding New Elements
To add new elements to the form, click and drag them from the Form Elementsmenu on the left.



Whenever a new element is added, the element's content editor will open on the right side of the screen. This is where you can change the text and customize the content within the element.

To reorder, hover over the element to review the blue action buttons. Click and hold the first button,ĀDrag to Reorder,Āand drag the section up or down to reposition it.



The second action button, Customize, will reopen the content editor on the right side of the page.



The third button, Duplicate, allows you to make a copy of the element you have selected.



The fourth button, Delete, will delete the entire element from the form.



Basic Elements

There are a variety of different Basic Elements that can be added to your form from the left-side menu.

Ģ Header - Inserts a header and optional subheader
Ģ Label- Inserts a "label" style line of text
Ģ Paragraph - Inserts a "paragraph" style box of text
Ģ Divider - Inserts a divider line
Ģ Text Input - Inserts text and a small box for text input
Ģ Number - Inserts text and a box for number input
Ģ Multi-line Input - Inserts text and a large, multi-line box for text input
Ģ Dropdown - Inserts text and a drop-down box for input.
Ģ Radio Button - Inserts text and radio buttons to select one option
Ģ Multiple Choice - Inserts text and multiple-choice boxes to select one or more option

Advanced Elements

Below these, there are also several Advanced Elements that you can use if applicable.

Ģ Email - Insert an additional email address field
Ģ Phone - Insert an additional phone number field
Ģ Full Name - Insert an additional name field
Ģ Address - Insert an address field
Ģ File Upload - Insert a file upload box
Ģ Date Picker - Insert a date box
Ģ Time - Insert an hours/minutes box
Ģ Rating - Insert a rating out of 5 stars box
Ģ Image - Insert an image
Ģ Signature - Insert a signature collected box
Ģ Range - Insert a range bar graphic
Ģ Captcha - Insert a CAPTCHA box

Customizing Elements

Whenever you click on one of your quiz's elements, the content editor will open on the right side of the screen. Depending on the type of element, there are multiple options to help customize how your quiz will function.

Whenever there is the option to enter text, the element menu will display a text editor box. Any writing inside the box can be formatted using word editing tools. Please be sure to highlight the text before applying a different format. The LabelĀbox will most likely contain your question.



You can also add an optional Sub Label or Sub Headerto many elements. This will be displayed below the answers.



For any elements with a text input field, you can use a Placeholder to provide an example or hint of what information you are looking for.



The Full Name element has multiple options to change the formatting. You can enable a middle name field and format the boxes to display Horizontally and in Columns.



The Address element can be formatted as a single line or Multiple Fields. You can also customize which address fields you would like to use.



The Date Picker can be used to collect today's date, a prospect's birth date, or any other date information.Ā You can set the Default to:

Ģ None - leave the date field empty
Ģ Current - populates the field with the date the contract is submitted
Ģ Custom - set a specific date to display in the field



You can also enable Age Verification and set a Minimum AgeĀto complete the contract.ĀĀThe date options can be further restricted to just Past Dates or Future Dates, and the date Format can be customized as well.



Use the Default setting to select a default answer to select.

Insert a Tooltip next to the question to provide additional context or clarify the type of answer you are looking for.



For any question that had more than one option to select, you will see an Options box. Type in each option that you'd like to display for this question, separated by commas (,).



If you would like to make a question mandatory, find the Required section and toggle it to Enabled. You can also enter an Error message to display when users do not respond to mandatory questions.



You also have the option to make a question Read Only so the user cannot select an answer, or HiddenĀentirely so only the admin can see it.



For elements that ask for a written response, click on Enable Charlimit (character limit) to limit how many characters the prospect can use in their answer.



If you would like your form to Auto Reject a form based on a specific response, click the toggle button to enable and select which value(s) will result in an automatic rejection of the form.



For more information about auto-reject in quizzes and forms, click here.

You can insert a File Upload box to collect any documents from your prospect. This element can accept the following file formats: PDF, DOC, DOCX, XLS, XLXS, CSV, TXT, RTF, HTML, ZIP, MP3, WMA, MPG, FLV, AVI, JPG, JPEG, PING, and GIF.Ā You can customize which file types can be uploaded by editing the File Types box. Please make sure that each value is separated by a comma (,) and no spaces.



The File Size Limit can also be restricted by setting a Minimum and/or Maximum size in KB. You can also enable "Multiple" for multiple files to be uploaded in this section and set a limit for the Number of Files.



Form Settings
In addition to the form builder, there is also a form settingsĀtab. To view the options, click Setting next to the Builder tab.



The Form Settings section has three tabs.



Form Settings

The Form Settings section contains several different areas to better customize how your forms behave.



At the top of the page, you can edit your Form name and Form page URL.

You can also select which funnel will collect new submissions from this from under the question, "**What funnel will all information be collected in?"**This means if you have embedded the form on your site or sent a link to a prospect,Ā that prospect will be automatically added to the selected funnel once the form is filled out.

You can also select an audience list to collect the email addresses of all submitted forms. Click the box beneath "What list will all information be collected in?" to choose the desired audience.

The Form status can be switched to "Archive" if you no longer want to use this form, or "Un-archive" to make it live again.

The Google reCAPTCHA keyĀoption allows you to insert CAPTCHA boxes into your forms. You will need to generate a Google reCAPTCHA API key to set it up.Ā Click here to learn how to general the API key.

A Form tracking codeĀcan be entered into the box to help with your analytics.

You can also set a Default thank you messageĀfor after the prospect completes the form.Ā There are options to create a CustomĀ"thank you" message, use an External link, or select an existing "Thank you" page from another form.



If you create a new CustomĀ"thank you" message, you can also insert a Tracking CodeĀfrom Facebook Pixel or Google Analytics, for example, to see who views the page.

Conditions

This section controls any conditional logic inside your form.

Create A New Field Condition

Click the Show/Hide field button to add a new condition based on the input your prospect enters.



Conditions are based on "if" statements to perform a certain action depending on the input or selection made.

IF: Begin byĀusing the drop-down menu to select the field.

STATE: Select the "state" of the field. Depending on the type of input, the options are:

Ģ Is Equal ToĀ- The action will be performed if the input is equal to the prospect's answer
Ģ Is Not Equal To -ĀThe action will be performed if the input is NOT equal to the prospect's answer
Ģ Contains - The action will be performed if the input contains the correct value anywhere the prospect's answer
Ģ Does Not Contain - The action will be performed if the input does NOT contain the correct value anywhere the prospect's answer
Ģ Starts With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value matches the prospect's answer
Ģ Doesn't Start With -ĀThe action will be performed if the beginning of the value does not match the prospect's answer
Ģ Ends With - The action will be performed if the ending of the value matches the prospect's answer
Ģ Doesn't End With - The action will be performed if the ending of the value does not match the prospect's answer
Ģ Is Empty - The action will be performed if the input box is left empty.
Ģ Is Filled - The action will be performed if the input box is filled.

TARGET: If you are using aĀstate that compares the input to another answer, select whether you want to use a value or another field to compare the input.

VALUE:ĀSelect a value/answer you created for this field for the comparison.

ANOTHER FIELD: Select a value/answer from a different field's value for the comparison.

DO: Select the type of action you want to occur when the condition is met.

Ģ Hide - Hide another field if the condition is met
Ģ Show - Show another field if the condition is met.
Ģ Show Multiple - Show multiple fields if the condition is met.
Ģ Hide Multiple - Hide multiple fields if the condition is met.

FIELD:ĀSelect the field(s) to show or hide.



After selecting each option, click the blue Save button to add your condition to this form.

Add Multiple IF Rules and Actions

You can also add multiple rules or actions within a condition by clicking the blue "+" icon.



If there is more than one IF statement, you can select whether you want the actions to be performed if Any or All rules are met.



Create A New Thank You Page Condition

Click the Thank You page button to add a new condition to display a specific thank you page depending on the input submitted by the prospect.



Just like with field conditions, you can select the IF, STATE, TARGET, VALUE, and FIELD boxes to set up your rule logic. Each condition can also accommodate multiple IF rules by clicking the blue "+" icon.

DO: Select the "Thank You" page action that will occur when the rules are met.

Ģ Display a custom message on submission - Create a custom message in the text post to display after the form is submitted.
Ģ Redirect to URL after submission - Enter a URL address to redirect the prospect to after submitting their form.
Ģ [Existing Thank you page] - Any other "thank you" pages you have created can be selected to display.



Once the logic has been set, click the blue Save button to add your new "thank you" page condition.

Where to View Existing Conditions

Every condition you create will be shown in this section as well.



You can use the action buttons to Edit, Disable, or Delete existing conditions.

Thank You Page

The Thank You Page section of the form settings allows you to create a custom "Thank You" page to display once this form is submitted.

To add a new page, click the blue Add Thank You Page button at the top-right corner of the page.



You will be brought to the "thank you" page editor. Type in a Name for your page and a Page URL will be automatically generated. You can also choose to enter your custom URL instead.



Use the text box to enter your Page content. You can also prefill the content with an existing template for a faster setup by clicking the Choose Template button.



At the bottom, you can insert a Tracking CodeĀto see who views the page.

Saving and Publishing Your Form
Once you are satisfied with your form, you'll want to make sure it is saved into the system.



Save

Click Save onĀthe top-right corner of the builder to save a draft of your form. You can find your saved drafts at any time by going to:

Hiring > Settings> Forms > Prospects



Click the drop-down menu where it saysĀActive Formsand select Draft Forms.

Save and Preview

Click Save and Preview to save as a draft and view what the form will look like to your prospects.



You can alternate between the Desktop view and Mobile view by using the buttons in the top right corner of the page.Ā Click Back To Form Builder to return to the editor.

Save and Publish

If you are ready for your form to be used by prospects, click the blue Save & Publish button to push it live. You will see a green pop-up notification in the top right corner of the page that says Form saved & published successfully.

Now, the form is ready to be sent to your hiring prospects. To learn how to send out a form, click here.

Related Articles

[How to add a hiring form to your website

Learn how to embed a hiring form into your website.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-add-a-hiring-form-to-your-website)[How to automatically reject prospects

Learn more about how to automatically reject prospects based on their forms and quizzes.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-automatically-reject-prospects)[How to send out a hiring form

Learn how to send hiring forms to your prospects.](https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-out-a-hiring-form)

Did you find this article helpful?

Yes No

Previous

How to set up hiring quizzes

Next



How to set up hiring quizzes
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-quizzes

How to set up hiring quizzes
Learn more about quizzes in the hiring module, including how to build a quiz, customize elements, and control quiz settings.

Last updated on 28 Apr, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What is a hiring quiz
Ģ Where to find quizzes in the hiring module
Ģ How to create a new quiz
Ģ How to add elements to a quiz
Ģ Where to control quiz settings
Ģ Publishing your quiz

What are quizzes?
Quizzes are one of the tools available in the hiring module. You can create a quiz to test the knowledge of your prospects and receive the results once they have been submitted.

For example, you can incorporate a quiz into your onboarding process to make sure each prospect understands all of your company's policies and procedures before sending them an employment contract.

Where do I view the quizzes?
There are two different sections in the hiring module where you can view and edit the quizzes.

Submitted Quizzes To view all quiz results, click on the Quizzestab in the top menu bar of the hiring module.
This section also had multiple filters to narrow down the results.
Use theFormsdrop-down menu to view submission for a specific quiz.
Click on theQuizzesdrop-down menu to show quiz submission by status: Sent Out, Completed, or Rejected.
There is also asearch bar to look up a prospect by their information.

Quiz Settings To view a list of all your quizzes, please go to: Settings > Forms > Quizzes If you'd like to view archived quizzes or draft quizzes, click the drop-down menu where it says Active Forms .

How do I create a new quiz?
To build your new form, click the green Create New Quiz button in the top-right corner of the Quizzespage.
You can also create a new quiz by going to:Settings > Forms > Quizzes A pop-up window will ask you to enter the quiz name . This can be edited later as well. Once you have entered the name, click Nextto continue.
Next, you will be brought to the form builder page. The form builder contains different types ofelements that can be inserted into the form to create content. By default, every form/quiz will have required fields for First Name , Last Name , Email , and Phone Number . This is to ensure that your prospects' quizzes are properly linked to their profile.

Adding New Elements
To add new elements to the quiz, click and drag them from the Quiz elementsmenu on the left.
Whenever a new element is added, the element's content editor will open on the right side of the screen. This is where you can change the text and customize the content within the element.
To reorder, hover over the element to review the blueaction buttons . Click and hold the first button, Drag to Reorder,and drag the section up or down to reposition it.
The second action button,Customize, will reopen the content editor on the right side of the page.
The third button,Duplicate, allows you to make a copy of the element you have selected.
The fourth button,Delete , will delete the entire element from the quiz.

Basic Elements There are a variety of different Basic Elements that can be added to your quiz from the left-side menu.
Ģ Header - Inserts a header and optional subheader
Ģ Label - Inserts a "label" style line of text
Ģ Paragraph - Inserts a "paragraph" style box of text
Ģ Divider - Inserts a divider line
Ģ Text Input - Inserts text and a small box for text input
Ģ Number - Inserts text and a box for number input
Ģ Multi-line Input - Inserts text and a large, multi-line box for text input
Ģ Dropdown - Inserts text and a drop-down box for input.
Ģ Radio Button - Inserts text and radio buttons to select one option
Ģ Multiple Choice - Inserts text and multiple-choice boxes to select one or more option

Advanced Elements Below these, there are also several Advanced Elements that you can use if applicable.
Ģ Image - Insert an image
Ģ Captcha - Insert a CAPTCHA box

Customizing ElementsWhenever you click on one of your quiz's elements, the content editor will open on the right side of the screen. Depending on the type of element, there are multiple options to help customize how your quiz will function.
Whenever there is the option to enter text, the element menu will display a text editor box. Any writing inside the box can be formatted using word editing tools. Please be sure to highlight the text before applying a different format. TheLabelbox will most likely contain your question.
You can also add an optionalSub Label or Sub Headerto many elements. This will be displayed below the element content.
For any elements with a text input field, you can use aPlaceholderto provide an example or hint of what information you are looking for.
TheFull Name element has multiple options to change the formatting. You can enable a middle name field and format the boxes to display Horizontally and in Columns.
TheAddress element can be formatted as a single line or Multiple Fields. You can also customize which address fields you would like to use.
TheDate Picker can be used to collect today's date, a prospect's birth date, or any other date information. You can set the Default to:
Ģ None - leave the date field empty
Ģ Current - populates the field with the date the contract is submitted
Ģ Custom- set a specific date to display in the field
You can also enableAge Verification and set a Minimum Age for the prospect to complete the contract. The date options can be further restricted to just Past Dates or Future Dates , and the date Formatcan be customized as well.
Use theDefaultsetting to select a default answer to select.
Insert aTooltipnext to the question to provide additional context or clarify the type of answer you are looking for.
For any question that had more than one option to select, you will see anOptionsbox. Type in each option that you'd like to display for this question, separated by commas (,).
If you would like to make a field mandatory, find theRequired section and toggle it to Enabled. You can also enter an Error message to display when users do not respond to mandatory questions.
You also have the option to make a questionRead Only so the user cannot select an answer, or Hiddenentirely so only the admin can see it.
For elements that ask for a written response, click onEnable Charlimit (character limit) to limit how many characters the prospect can use in their answer.

Graded Elements There are three form elements that can be used for automatic grading purposes: Dropdown , Radio Button , and Multiple Choice.
If you would like the quiz to be automatically graded upon submission, enable theGradedoption in the right-side menu.
Then, select theGraded Value(s) to establish the correct answer(s) from those provided.

Quiz Settings
In addition to the form builder, there is also a quiz settings tab. To view the options, click Setting next to the Buildertab.
The Quiz Settings section has three tabs.

Quiz Settings This section is where you can edit your Quiz name and Quiz page URL.
Select which funnel will collect new submissions from this quiz under the question, "What funnel will all information be collected in?" You can also select an audience list to collect the email addresses of all submitted quizzes. Click the box beneath " What list will all information be collected in?" to choose the desired audience.
TheQuiz status can be switched to " Archive " if you no longer want to use this form, or " Un-archive" to make it live again.
TheGoogle reCAPTCHA keyoption allows you to insert CAPTCHA boxes into your quiz. You will need to generate a Google reCAPTCHA API key to set it up. Click here to learn how to generate the API key.
AForm tracking codecan be entered into the box to help with your analytics.
You can also set aDefault thank you message for after the prospect completes the quiz. There are options to create a Custom "thank you" message, use an External link , or select an existing " Thank you page"from another form.
If you create a newCustom "thank you" message, you can also insert a Tracking Code from Facebook Pixel or Google Analytics, for example, to see who views the page.

Conditions This section controls any conditional logic inside your quiz.

Create A New Field Condition Click the Show/Hide fieldbutton to add a new condition based on the input your prospect enters.
Conditions are based on "if" statements to perform a certain action depending on the input or selection made.IF: Begin by using the drop-down menu to select the field. STATE: Select the "state" of the field. Depending on the type of input, the options are:
Ģ Is Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is equal to the prospect's answer
Ģ Is Not Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is NOT equal to the prospect's answer
Ģ Contains - The action will be performed if the input contains the correct value anywhere the prospect's answer
Ģ Does Not Contain - The action will be performed if the input does NOT contain the correct value anywhere the prospect's answer
Ģ Starts With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value matches the prospect's answer
Ģ Doesn't Start With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value does not match the prospect's answer
Ģ Ends With - The action will be performed if the ending of the value matches the prospect's answer
Ģ Doesn't End With - The action will be performed if the ending of the value does not match the prospect's answer
Ģ Is Empty - The action will be performed if the input box is left empty.
Ģ Is Filled - The action will be performed if the input box is left empty. TARGET: If you are using a state that compares the input to another answer, select whether you want to use a value or another field to compare the input. VALUE: Select a value/answer you created for this field for the comparison. ANOTHER FIELD: Select a value/answer from a different field's value for the comparison. DO: Select the type of action you want to occur when the condition is met.
Ģ Hide - Hide another field if the condition is met
Ģ Show - Show another field if the condition is met.
Ģ Show Multiple - Show multiple fields if the condition is met.
Ģ Hide Multiple - Hide multiple fields if the condition is met. FIELD:Select the field(s) to show or hide.
After selecting each option, click the blueSave button to add your condition to this quiz.

Add Multiple IF Rules and Actions You can also add multiple rules or actions within a condition by clicking the blue " +" icon.
If there is more than one IF statement, you can select whether you want the actions to be performed ifAny or All rules are met.

Create A New Thank You Page Condition Click the Change "Thank You" pagebutton to add a new condition based on the input your prospect enters.
TheIF , STATE , TARGET , and VALUE / ANOTHER FIELD sections are the same as above. DO: Select the type of action you want to occur when the condition is met.
Ģ Change "Thank You" page - Change the "Thank You" page if the condition is met. PAGE:Select the new "Thank You" page to display.
After selecting each option, click the blueSave button to add your condition to this quiz.

Saving and Publishing Your Quiz Once you have finished building your quiz and adjusting the settings, click the blue Savebutton in the top right corner of the page.
If you are ready to publish your quiz, click the greenPublishbutton next to it.
A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you want to publish the quiz. ClickYesto confirm.
Your quiz is now live and ready to be sent to your prospects!



How to set up contracts
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-contracts

How to set up contracts
Learn more about contracts, including how to build a contract, customize elements, and control contract settings.

Last updated on 12 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are contracts
Ģ Where to find contracts in the hiring module
Ģ How to create a new contract
Ģ How to add elements to a contract
Ģ Where to control contract settings
Ģ Publishing your contracts

What are contracts?
Contracts are one of the tools available in the hiring module. Contracts are a specific type of agreement that is intended to be legally binding and enforceable in a court of law.

Contracts are an important part of the onboarding process and state the terms and elements your prospect must agree to work with your company.

Where do I view the contracts?
There are two different sections in the hiring module where you can view and edit contracts.

Submitted Contracts To view all completed contracts, click on the Contractstab in the top menu bar of the hiring module.
This section also had multiple filters to narrow down the results.
Use theFormsdrop-down menu to view submission for a specific contract.
Click on theContractsdrop-down menu to show contract submissions by status: Sent Out, Completed, or Rejected.
There is also asearch bar to look up a prospect by their information.

Contract Settings To view a list of all your contracts, please go to: Settings > Forms > Contracts If you'd like to view archived contracts or draft contracts, click the drop-down menu where it says Active Forms.

How do I create a new contract?
To build a new contract, click the green Add New Contract button in the top-right corner of the Contractspage.
You can also create a new contract by going to:Settings > Forms > Contracts

When the pop-up window opens, select " Create contract " if you would like to create a form from scratch, or " Update PDF" if you would like to add elements to an existing document.
If you are uploading a PDF, select the file you would like to use from your computer.
Enter theform name (this can be edited later if needed), then click Next to continue.

From here, you will land on the form builder page. The form builder contains different types of elements that can be inserted into the contract to create content. By default, every form/contract will have required fields for First Name , Last Name , Email , and Phone Number . This is to ensure that your prospects' contracts are properly linked to their profile.

Adding New Elements
To add new elements to the contract, click and drag them from the Contract elementsmenu on the left.
Whenever a new element is added, the element's content editor will open on the right side of the screen. This is where you can change the text and customize the content within the element.

To reorder, hover over the element to review the blue action buttons . Click and hold the first button, Drag to Reorder,and drag the section up or down to reposition it.
The second action button,Customize, will reopen the content editor on the right side of the page.
The third button,Duplicate, allows you to make a copy of the element you have selected.
The fourth button,Delete , will delete the entire element from the quiz.

Basic Elements There are a variety of different Basic Elements that can be added to your contract from the left-side menu.
Ģ Header - Inserts a header and optional subheader
Ģ Label - Inserts a "label" style line of text
Ģ Paragraph - Inserts a "paragraph" style box of text
Ģ Divider - Inserts a divider line
Ģ Text Input - Inserts text and a small box for text input
Ģ Number - Inserts text and a box for number input
Ģ Multi-line Input - Inserts text and a large, multi-line box for text input
Ģ Dropdown - Inserts text and a drop-down box for input.
Ģ Radio Button - Inserts text and radio buttons to select one option
Ģ Multiple Choice - Inserts text and multiple-choice boxes to select one or more option

Advanced Elements Below these, there are also several Advanced Elements that you can use if applicable.
Ģ Email - Insert an additional email address field
Ģ Phone - Insert an additional phone number field
Ģ Full Name - Insert an additional name field
Ģ Address - Insert an address field
Ģ File Upload - Insert a file upload box
Ģ Date Picker - Insert a date box
Ģ Time - Insert an hours/minutes box
Ģ Rating - Insert a rating out of 5 stars box
Ģ Image - Insert an image
Ģ Signature - Insert a signature collected box
Ģ Range - Insert a range bar graphic
Ģ Captcha - Insert a CAPTCHA box

Customizing Elements Whenever you click on one of your contract's elements, the content editor will open on the right side of the screen. Depending on the type of element, there are multiple options to help customize how your contract will function.

Whenever there is the option to enter text, the element menu will display a text editor box . Any writing inside the box can be formatted using word editing tools. Please be sure to highlight the text before applying a different format.

You can also add an optional Sub Label or Sub Header to many elements. This will be displayed below the element content.

For any elements with a text input field, you can use a Placeholder to provide an example or hint of what information you are looking for.

The Full Name element has multiple options to change the formatting. You can enable a middle name field and format the boxes to display Horizontally and in Columns .

The Address element can be formatted as a single line or Multiple Fields . You can also customize which address fields you would like to use.

The Date Picker can be used to collect today's date, a prospect's birth date, or any other date information. You can set the Default to:
Ģ None - leave the date field empty
Ģ Current - populates the field with the date the contract is submitted
Ģ Custom - set a specific date to display in the field

You can also enable Age Verification and set a Minimum Age for a prospect to complete the contract. The date options can be further restricted to just Past Dates or Future Dates , and the date Format can be customized as well.

Use the Default setting to select a default answer to select.

You also have the option to make some elements Read Only so the user cannot select an answer (if applicable), or Hidden entirely so only the admin can see it.

Insert a Tooltip next to the element to provide additional context or clarify the type of input you are looking for.

For any question that has one or more options to select, you will see an Options box. For multiple options, please separate each value by a comma (,).

If you would like to make a question mandatory, find the Required section and toggle it to Enabled . You can also enter an Error message to display when users do not respond to mandatory questions.

You can insert a File Upload box to collect any documents from your prospect. This element can accept the following file formats: PDF, DOC, DOCX, XLS, XLXS, CSV, TXT, RTF, HTML, ZIP, MP3, WMA, MPG, FLV, AVI, JPG, JPEG, PING, and GIF. You can customize which files types can be uploaded by editing the File Types box. Please make sure that each value is separated by a comma (,) and no spaces.

The File Size Limit can also be restricted by setting a Minimum and/or Maximum size in KB. You can also enable Multiple files to be uploaded in this section and set a limit for the Number of Files .

Contract Settings
In addition to the form builder, there is also a contract settings tab. To view the options, click Setting next to the Builder tab.

The Contract Settings section has three tabs.

Contract Settings This section is where you can edit your Contract name and Form page URL .

Select which funnel will collect new submissions of this contract under the question, " What funnel will all information be collected in?"

You can also select an audience list to collect the email addresses of all submitted contracts. Click the box beneath " What list will all information be collected in? " to choose the desired audience.

The Contract status can be switched to " Archive " if you no longer want to use this form, or " Un-archive " to make it live again.

The Google reCAPTCHA key option allows you to insert CAPTCHA boxes into your forms. You will need to generate a Google reCAPTCHA API key to set it up. Click here to learn how to generate the API key.

A Contract tracking code can be entered into the box to help with your analytics.

You can also set a Default thank you message for after the prospect submits the contract. There are options to create a Custom "thank you" message, use an External link , or select an existing " Thank you" page from another form.

If you create a new Custom "thank you" message, you can also insert a Tracking Code from Facebook Pixel or Google Analytics, for example, to see who views the page.

Conditions This section controls any conditional logic inside your contract.

Create A New Field Condition Click the Show/Hide field button to add a new condition based on the input your prospect enters.

Conditions are based on "if" statements to perform a certain action depending on the input or selection made.

IF: Begin by using the drop-down menu to select the field.

STATE: Select the "state" of the field. Depending on the type of input, the options are:
Ģ Is Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is equal to the prospect's answer
Ģ Is Not Equal To - The action will be performed if the input is NOT equal to the prospect's answer
Ģ Contains - The action will be performed if the input contains the correct value anywhere the prospect's answer
Ģ Does Not Contain - The action will be performed if the input does NOT contain the correct value anywhere the prospect's answer
Ģ Starts With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value matches the prospect's answer
Ģ Doesn't Start With - The action will be performed if the beginning of the value does not match the prospect's answer
Ģ Ends With - The action will be performed if the ending of the value matches the prospect's answer
Ģ Doesn't End With - The action will be performed if the ending of the value does not match the prospect's answer
Ģ Is Empty - The action will be performed if the input box is left empty.
Ģ Is Filled - The action will be performed if the input box is left empty.

TARGET: If you are using a state that compares the input to another answer, select whether you want to use a value or another field to compare the input.

VALUE: Select a value/answer you created for this field for the comparison.

ANOTHER FIELD: Select a value/answer from a different field's value for the comparison.

DO: Select the type of action you want to occur when the condition is met.
Ģ Hide - Hide another field if the condition is met
Ģ Show - Show another field if the condition is met.
Ģ Show Multiple - Show multiple fields if the condition is met.
Ģ Hide Multiple - Hide multiple fields if the condition is met.

FIELD: Select the field(s) to show or hide.

After selecting each option, click the blue Save button to add your condition to this contract.

Add Multiple IF Rules and Actions You can also add multiple rules or actions within a condition by clicking the blue " + " icon. To delete a rule, click the blue " - " icon.

If there is more than one IF statement, you can select whether you want the actions to be performed if Any or All rules are met.

Create A New Thank You Page Condition Click the Thank you page button to add a new condition to display a specific thank you page depending on the input submitted by the prospect.

Just like with field conditions, you can select the IF , STATE , TARGET , VALUE , and FIELD boxes to set up your rule logic. Each condition can also accommodate multiple IF rules by clicking the blue " + " icon.

DO: Select the "Thank You" page action that will occur when the rules are met.
Ģ Display a custom message on submission - Create a custom message in the text post to display after the form is submitted.
Ģ Redirect to URL after submission - Enter a URL address to redirect the prospect to after submitting their form.
Ģ [Existing Thank you page] - Any other "thank you" pages you have created can be selected to display.

Once the logic has been set, click the blue Save button to add your new "thank you" page condition.

Where to View Existing Conditions Every condition you create will be shown in this section as well.

You can use the action buttons to Edit , Disable , or Delete existing conditions.

Thank You Page The Thank You Page section of the contract settings allows you to create a custom "Thank You" page to display once this form is submitted.

To add a new page, click the blue Add Thank You Page button at the top-right corner of the page.

You will be brought to the "thank you" page editor. Type in a Name for your page and a Page URL will be automatically generated. You can also choose to enter your custom URL instead.

Use the text box to enter your Page content . You can also prefill the content with an existing template for a faster setup by clicking the Choose Template button.

At the bottom, you can insert a Tracking Code to see who views the page.

Saving and Publishing Your Contract
Once you are satisfied with your contract, you'll want to make sure it is saved into the system.

Save Click Save on the top-right corner of the builder to save a draft of your contract. You can find your saved drafts at any time by going to: Hiring > Settings> Forms > Contracts Click the drop-down menu where it says Active Forms and select Draft Forms.

Save and Preview Click Save and Previewto save as a draft and view what the form will look like to your prospects.
You can alternate between theDesktop view and Mobile view by using the buttons in the top right corner of the page. Click Back To Form Builder to return to the editor.

Save and Publish If you are ready for your contract to be filled out by prospects, click the blue Save & Publish button to push it live. You will see a green pop-up notification in the top right corner of the page that says Contract saved & published successfully .

Now, the contract is ready to be sent to your hiring prospects. To learn how to send a contract out, click here.



How to set up funnels
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-funnels

How to set up funnels
Learn more about hiring funnels and how to set them up in the hiring module.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ What are funnels
Ģ Where to view your funnels
Ģ How to create a new funnel

What are funnels?
A funnel represents the framework of your hiring process, breaking down each aspect into stages and tasks. Most funnels start with collecting your prospect's information and qualifications with the final goal being to onboard a new hire.

Some examples of steps in a typical hiring funnel include:
Ģ Filling out forms
Ģ Scheduling and conducting an interview
Ģ Collecting documents and IDs
Ģ Sending and signing a contract
Ģ Performing a background check

Each step inside your funnel can be fully customized based on your needs.

Where do I view the funnel(s)?
Your funnel(s) will display under the Onboarding tab inside the hiring module.

If you have multiple funnels, use the Funnels drop-down menu to switch to another one.

How do I add a new funnel?
To create a new funnel, click the blue Add Funnel button at the top of the Onboarding page.

Start by entering the Funnel Name at the top of the page.

Columns Funnels use columns to separate each step of your hiring process. There are three columns automatically included in every new funnel.
Ģ Prospects - This is where your prospective new hire/applicant information will be displayed.
Ģ Completion - This box will display what percentage of the funnel's steps have been completed by the applicant or admin.
Ģ Background Check - This column can be kept if you perform background checks as a part of your hiring funnel, or made into something else.

The Name of each column can be edited to the label of your choice so you can change any pre-existing columns in your funnel.

Add a new column To add a new column, click the blue Add New Column button in the top-right corner of the page.

An Add Column pop-up box will appear where you can type in the Column name.

Enable email automation Then, you can select "Yes" if you'd like to Enable email automation for this column. Email automation can be added to any custom column and corresponds with the campaigns under the Marketing section.

Select the desired audience below where it says "What audience will all information be collected in?" and then click the blue Save button to add the column to your funnel.

Delete a column To delete a column, click the trash can icon next to the column name. A pop-up window will ask you to confirm if you want to delete the column. Click Yes to proceed.

Rearrange the columns If you would like to change the order of the columns, click and hold the column title and drag it to a new position.

Saving your Funnel Once you are done adding columns to your Funnel, click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page.

Your tunnel will now be available for use in your Onboarding section.

For more information about how to edit, archive, and delete existing funnels, please click here.



How to edit your funnels
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-edit-your-funnels

How to edit your funnels
Learn more about editing your funnels, updating their settings, and rearranging the funnel order.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Edit your funnel settings
Ģ Archive and delete old funnels
Ģ Rearrange your funnel order

How do I edit my funnels?
If you ever need to make changes to your funnel's settings, please go to the Onboarding page and click on the Funnel Settings button.

This launches a Funnel Settings pop-up menu. Use the drop-down menu to search all, active, or archived funnels, or the search box to search for a specific funnel name.

Each funnel has three action buttons:
Ģ Edit - Opens the funnel editor
Ģ Delete - Deletes the funnel completely from the hiring module
Ģ Archive - Deactivates the funnel on your onboarding page and moves the funnel to the archived funnels list

Edit a funnel from the funnel settings menu

If you'd like to make any changes to the columns in your funnel, click the Edit button to open the Edit Funnel page.

1336 Add New Column - Click this button to add a new column to this funnel.
1337 Funnel Actions - This menu provides options to delete or archive this funnel.
1338 Funnel Name - Edit the funnel's name.
1339 Delete Column - Click the trash can icon to delete an existing column in the funnel.
1340 Column Name - Edit the column's name.
1341 Enable Email Automation - Turn on email automation for this column. If enabled, select an audience from the audience list drop-down menu below.
1342 Update - Remember to click the blue Update button after making any changes.

Edit a funnel in the onboarding section

Funnels can also be edited directly from inside the Onboarding section.

You can update any column by clicking the pencil icon. This will open a pop-up window where you can edit the column name or enable/disable email automation.

To delete a column, click the trash can icon.

Archive a funnel
If you are no longer going to be using a funnel, click the Archive button from the Funnel Settings menu. A pop-up window will ask to confirm if you are sure you want to make this change.

Click Yes to proceed. You can always go back and reactivate it from the funnel settings by selecting Archived funnels and clicking the Activate button.

Delete a funnel
To delete a funnel, click on Funnel Settings from the Onboarding section.

When you click the Delete button, a pop-up window will ask to confirm if you are sure you want to make this change.

Once a funnel has been deleted, it has been completely removed from the hiring module. Please be sure you do not want to use this funnel or any of the information collected within it again before clicking Yes to proceed.

Reorder your funnels
If you use more than one funnel in the onboarding section, you can change the funnel menu order and select which funnel will display by default.

Open the Funnels menu at the top of the screen, then click the grey "Reorder" button.

Whichever funnel name is displayed at the top of the list will be your default view. To change the order, click the funnel name and then drag it to a new position in the list. Click Update to save your changes.



How to add a prospect
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-add-a-prospect

How to add a prospect
Learn how to add a prospect to the hiring module.

Last updated on 29 Jul, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ what are prospects
Ģ how to create a new prospect
Ģ how to add a prospect to a funnel
Ģ how to remove a prospect from a funnel
Ģ how to edit a prospect's information

What is a prospect?
A prospect is any person you have added to your hiring funnel. They can be involved in any step of the process: whether you are at the recruitment stage, reviewing applications and materials, or onboarding.

How to create a new prospect
There are several different places you can add a new prospect into the hiring module.

From the Onboarding section, click the blue Add Prospect button.

From the Interviews section, click the blue Add Prospect button.

From the Prospects section, click the blue Add Prospect button.

A pop-up window will appear where you will enter the prospect's first name , last name , email address , and phone number . You can also add notes about the prospect for reference.

Click the blue Add button to save them into the Prospects section.

How to add a prospect to a funnel
After you have created a new prospect, you can add them to your funnel(s).

Check the box under the Onboarding column and select which funnel you'd like to add them to from the drop-down menu pop-up. Then, click Submit to add them to the funnel.

You will now be able to view the prospect under your funnel and mark each step as they are completed.

You can also add a prospect to a funnel from their Prospect Details page.  To view this page, click on their name under the Prospects section.

Next, click the green Add to Funnel button on the top right side of the screen. Select the funnel you'd like to add them to and then click Submit to add them.

How to remove a prospect from a funnel
If you want to remove a prospect from a funnel, you can go to the Prospects section and uncheck the box under the Onboarding column.

A pop-up window will appear. Click the X to remove the funnel, then Submit to update the system.

You also have the same option listed under the Prospect Details page.

Click the green Add to Funnel button to see and remove the prospect from it.

How to edit prospect details
If you need to make any changes to your prospect's name, email address, phone number, or notes, click on their name under the Prospects section to view their Prospect Details .

Click the blue Edit button to edit the fields, and then click Update to save the changes.



How to automatically reject prospects
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-automatically-reject-prospects

How to automatically reject prospects
The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What is automatic rejection
Ģ How to set up auto-reject in forms
Ģ Where to view rejected prospect forms
Ģ How to set up auto-reject in quizzes
Ģ Where to view rejected quizzes

What is automatic rejection?
Automatic rejection is one of the settings options you have for your prospect forms and quizzes. You can enable this to automatically place your prospects in the "Rejected Prospects" list if they fail to meet your criteria when they submit a form or quiz.

For example, you may want to reject candidates who do not meet specific qualifications in an application-type form. Or, you can set up an auto-reject to occur when a prospect does not receive a passing grade on a quiz.

Setting Up Auto-Reject in Forms
If you have not set up a form yet, click here for more information on how to create and customize a new form.

To enable auto-reject in a form, go to Settings and click on the Prospects tab.

Click the pencil icon next to the form name to open the form builder.

Three different form elements have automatic rejection settings: dropdown, radio button, and multiple choice.

To enable auto-reject, click the element inside your form to open the element options menu on the right side of the page.

Scroll down to the bottom where it says Auto-Reject and toggle the button to Enabled. Then, designate the Rejected Value(s) in the box below. You can select multiple values if needed.

Remember to click Save or Save & Publish to update your new settings.

Viewing Rejected Prospects
Now when a prospect selects the rejected value(s), their form will be automatically rejected upon submission.

To view your rejected prospects, go to the Prospects section and select "Rejected" from the Prospects status drop-down menu.

Setting Up Auto-Reject in Quizzes
To enable auto-reject for quizzes in your settings, you will first need to make sure your quiz has graded elements.

If you have not set up a quiz yet, click here for more information on how to create and customize a new quiz.

Setting Up Graded Elements To set up your graded elements in your quiz, go to Settings, click Forms, and then click on the Quizzes tab.

Click the pencil icon next to the quiz name to open the form builder.

Three form elements can be used for automatic grading purposes: Dropdown, Radio Button, and Multiple Choice.

To enable grading, click the element inside your form to open the element options menu on the right side of the page.

Scroll down towards the bottom where it says Graded and toggle the button to Enabled. Then, designate the Graded Value(s) in the box below. You can select multiple values if needed.

Remember to click Save or Save & Publish to update your new values.

Using "Non-Graded" Elements in Quizzes You can also use other "non-graded" elements in your quizzes that do not have automatic grading. Non-graded elements cannot be set up for automatic grading because they require the prospect to manually type in an answer:
Ģ Text Input
Ģ Number
Ģ Multi-Line Input

The main difference is that these elements will need to be manually graded by the admin when the quiz is received. If you use any of these elements in your quiz, the status will read "Not Yet Graded" in the Quizzes section.

Click here to learn more about how to grade quizzes with non-graded elements.

Settings Finally, to finalize your auto-reject settings for your quizzes, go to: Settings > Settings > General

Scroll down to where it says "Should we automatically reject prospects based on quiz score?" and select "Yes".

Below this, use the arrows to set the minimum score required to pass the quiz.

Click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page to apply your new quiz settings.

The final score will be calculated as a percentage based on how many questions were answered correctly. Only the graded elements are used to calculate the score.



How to set up canned responses
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-canned-responses

How to set up canned responses
Learn more about canned responses and how to set them up in the hiring module.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:

Ģ What a canned response is
Ģ How to create a new canned response template

What is a canned response?
A canned response is a custom, pre-set template that you can use for communication purposes.  You can create canned responses for emails or SMS messages to send to your prospects. You can create canned responses to check in or see if they have any questions about your hiring process.

To learn more about how to send emails and SMS messages to your prospect, click here.

For example, some businesses will send a follow-up message to a prospect if they haven't heard from them for more than a few days.  In this scenario, a canned response could be created that says:

Hello [Prospect Name},

We are reaching out because we have not heard from you in a few days and wanted to see if you were interested in continuing the application process? If not, please let us know and we can close your application.  

If you have any questions or concerns, please contact us a [support@business.com].  

Sincerely,
[Sender name]

Once saved, this canned response can be inserted into an email or SMS message and quickly sent out to the prospect. Canned responses can save a lot of time if you frequently send out emails with the same content.

Creating a New Canned Response
Canned responses can be used for emails or SMS messages. To create a new one, click on the Settings menu and select Notifications .

Emails

To make an email canned response, click on the Emails tab at the top of the page.

Scroll down to Email Templates and click on Canned Response, then click the blue Add Canned Response Template button.

You will be brought to a new page where you can customize your canned response.

1343 Name - Enter the name of the template. Only the admin will see this.
1344 Description - Enter the name of the template. Only the admin will see this.
1345 Subject - Enter the subject line seen by you and the prospect.
1346 Master Templates - Select a premade master template from your Notifications section to save time on editing your content.
1347 Content Editor - Enter your email content here.  There are a wide variety of formatting tools to customize exactly how you want your email to look.
1348 View Short Codes - Click this button to view a list of all shortcodes that work in your email templates. Click here to learn more about shortcodes and how to use them in your communications.
1349 Save - Be sure to save your canned response once you are done editing.

Once saved, you can enable or disable your canned response by clicking the toggle button.

SMS

To make an SMS canned response, click on the SMS tab at the top of the Notification Settings page.

Scroll down to the list of SMS notifications, click on the Canned Response tab, and then click the blue Add Canned Response Template button.

You will be brought to a new page where you can customize your canned response.

1350 Name - Enter the name of the template. Only the admin will see this.
1351 Description - Enter the name of the template. Only the admin will see this.
1352 Message - Enter the subject line seen by you and the prospect.
1353 Insert Short Codes - Click this button to view a list of all shortcodes that work in your SMS templates. Click here to learn more about shortcodes and how to use them in your communications.
1354 Character Limit - Please note that all SMS messages have a 1000 character limit.
1355 Save - Be sure to save your canned response once you are done editing.

Once saved, you can enable or disable your canned response by clicking the toggle button.



How to set up hiring notifications
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-set-up-notifications

How to set up hiring notifications
Learn more about setting up email, SMS, and system alert notifications in the hiring module.

Last updated on 30 Oct, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where to view your notification settings
Ģ How to set up email notifications
Ģ How to set up SMS notifications
Ģ How to set up system alerts

Where are the notification settings?
All of your notification settings for the hiring module can be located by selecting the Settings menu at the top of the Hiring Module and clicking Notifications.

The notification settings section contains three tabs for each type of notification: Email, SMS, and System Alert.

How do I set up email notifications?
First, click on the Email tab under Notifications.

You will need to set a "default send out email" to deliver your messages, a "reply to" email, and a "sender name".

If you already set up the general email settings for your store under Settings > Notifications > General, that email address will be used here by default. If you would like your hiring module to send messages using a different email, click the blue Change button.

A pop-up window will ask you to enter the email address you would like to use instead.

After you click Update, you will see a green notification in the top-right corner letting you know that a verification email has been sent to the inbox to finish the setup. Open your inbox and click the link in the email to finish verifying the new send out email address.

If you want to set a different "reply to" email, type it into the "Reply-To" box. The system will automatically use the default email if you do not want to use a separate address.

Finally, enter the "Sender Name". This is the name that your prospects will see when they receive an email from this address.

Click the blue Save button to finalize your sender email settings.

Creating a Master Template
A Master Template is a default template that you can build and apply to other email templates. A master template may contain your company logo, special content, general contact information, or other resources that you wish to include in every email.

By default, there are two different master templates built into the hiring module: a master template for prospect emails, and a master template for admin emails. We've included these two master templates so you have the option to create different formats depending on the intended audience.

To view the master templates, go to: Settings > Notifications > Email

Scroll down towards the bottom of the page and click the plus sign icon to expand the Master Templates section.

Edit a Master Template

To start editing an existing master template, click the Options button next to the template name, then Edit. This will open a content editor page.

1356 View Short Codes - Click this button to view a list of all shortcodes that work in your SMS templates.
1356.1 To insert a shortcode into your template, click the blue "View Short Codes" button to view a list of all options.
1356.2 Click "Copy" next to the code you want to use.
1356.3 Close the pop-up window using the red "X" and then paste the shortcode into the body of your template.
1357 Name - Enter the name of the master template.
1358 Preview - View what the template will look like.
1359 Content Editor - Enter your template content here. There are a wide variety of formatting tools to customize exactly how you want your template to look.
1360 Update - Be sure to click "update" to save any changes you've made.
1361 Restore to Default - Click this button to restore the master template to its original content.
1362 Cancel - Click this button to return to the master email templates listing.

Add a New Master Template

If you would like to create a new master template, click the blue Add Master Template button.

This will open a pop-up window where you can build your new template.

Apply a Master Template to Emails

Once you are satisfied with your master template, you can choose to apply it to the other existing templates.

Click the Options button next to the template name and select Apply to Emails.

This will open a pop-up window. Here, you can select which will be updated with the master template. There are separate tabs for Admin emails and Prospect emails.

Check off individual boxes or click "All" to select all emails within a category. Click Apply to update the emails, or Cancel to return to the notifications settings page.

Enable/Disable Email Templates
All of your email templates will be located towards the bottom of the page when you go to: Settings > Notifications > Email Templates

There are three different sections to better organize your templates: one for Prospect emails, another for Admin email, and a final section for Canned Responses.

If you wish to enable or disable an email notification, all you need to do is click on the "Enable/Disable" toggle button.

A pop-up will appear asking you to confirm the change. Click "Yes" and the status will be updated.

Edit Email Templates
You can also edit the email template content by clicking the pencil icon to the right of the template name.

An Edit Email Template page will open where you can edit the content.

1363 View Short Codes - Click this button to view a list of all shortcodes that work in your SMS templates.
1364 Subject - Enter the subject line for this email.
1365 Master Templates - If you have created any master templates, you can use them for the body of your email template. Click the drop-down menu to select which template you'd like to apply.
1366 Preview With Master Template - Check this box to see a preview of your email in the box below. If you do not select this option, only the content in the content editor will be displayed.
1367 Content Editor - Edit your email content in this box.
1368 Save - If you make any changes, remember to click save.
1369 Send Test Email - Click this button to send a test email of this message. A pop-up box will appear where you can enter the email address. Click Send to send out the test message. Please note that any shortcodes will be populated with random data.
1370 Restore to Default - Click this button to restore the system alert to its default message.
1371 Cancel - Click this button to return to the email templates listing.

How do I set up SMS notifications?
First, click on the SMS tab under Notifications.

You will need a "default send out phone number" via Twilio to deliver your text messages.

You may have already linked your Twilio account when you set up SMS notifications under your store's general notification settings. If so, you will see your account ID, API key, and phone number boxes have been filled out.

If you have not connected your Twilio account yet, you will see a message at the top of the screen letting you know.

To connect your account, you will need to into your Twilio dashboard to retrieve your Account ID (also known as a SID), API Key, and Phone Number.

Once you have pasted each piece of information into the appropriate box, click the Save button to finish setting up your default send-out phone number.

Now, you will be ready to send out SMS notifications from the hiring module.

Enable/Disable SMS Templates
All of your SMS templates will be located towards the bottom of the page when you go to: Settings > Notifications > SMS

There are three different sections to better organize your templates: one for Prospect messages, another for Admin messages, and a final section for Canned Responses.

If you wish to enable or disable an app notification, all you need to do is click on the "Enable/Disable" toggle button.

A pop-up will appear asking you to confirm the change. Click "Yes" and the status will be updated.

Edit SMS Templates
You can also edit the SMS message content by clicking the pencil icon to the right of the template name.

An Edit SMS Template page will open where you can edit the message.

1372 Back - Click this button to go back to the System Alerts section.
1373 Message - Edit your message content in this box.
1374 Insert Short Codes - Click this button to view a list of all shortcodes that work in your SMS templates.
1375 Character Limit - Please note the message cannot exceed 1000 total characters.
1376 Save - If you make any changes, remember to click save.
1377 Send Test SMS - Click this button to send a test SMS of this message. A pop-up box will appear where you can enter the phone number. Click Send to send out the test message.
1378 Restore to Default - Click this button to restore the system alert to its default message.

How do I set up system alerts?
The hiring module also contains special system alerts to notify you when certain events take place.

To view your hiring system alerts, go to: Settings > Notifications > System Alert

System alerts can be disabled by clicking the toggle button and changing it to "Disabled". A pop-up window will ask you to confirm if you want to make this change. Click "Yes" to continue.

To enable a system alert, click the button again to change it back to "Enabled".

You can also edit the message you see when the system alert is displayed by clicking the pencil icon to the right of the alert.

An Edit Alert page will open where you can edit the message.

1379 Back - Click this button to go back to the System Alerts section.
1380 Message - Edit your message content in this box.
1381 Character Limit - Please note the message cannot exceed 120 total characters.
1382 Save - If you make any changes, remember to click save.
1383 Restore to Default - Click this button to restore the system alert to its default message.



How do funnel statuses work
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-do-funnel-statuses-work

How do funnel statuses work
Learn more about funnel statuses, how to create your own, and how the completion bar works.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ What are funnel statuses
Ģ What are the default status options
Ģ How the completion bar works
Ģ How to add custom statuses
Ģ How to add step notes

What are funnel statuses?
Funnel statuses are used inside your funnel to measure each prospectÆs level of completion. Funnel statuses will only display if a prospect has been added to your funnel. To learn more about how to add a prospect to a funnel, click here. To view your funnel, go to the Onboarding section.

Each column in the funnel contains a status menu that can be updated to help track how far along your prospect is in the hiring/onboarding process. Depending on the status, a ōcompletion barö will show what percentage of steps have been finished.

Status Options
Every column has three default statuses built-in for your use: Done, Does Not Apply and Waiting.

Done If you update a column's status to "Done", that step will be marked as completed in your funnel.
As a result, thecompletion bar will update to show the total percentage of columns that are marked as done.

Does Not Apply If you update a column's status to "Does Not Apply", that column will not be counted as needing completion.
As a result, thecompletion bar will exclude this column from the total percentage of completed steps.

Waiting If you update a column's status to "Waiting", that step will be left incomplete until another status is chosen.
When "Waiting" has been selected, that column will not count towards the total percent of completed steps in the completion bar.

Adding a Custom Status In addition to the default statuses, you can also add custom statusoptions for each column.
To add a custom status, click theplus sign icon next to the status bar, or open the status menu and click the blue Add New Statusbutton.
A pop-up window will appear where you can enter the name of the new status. ClickSaveto add the status to the column.
Once a custom status has been added to a column, it can be used for any other applicants in the same column.
Toedit or delete a custom status, click on the status menu and select the pencil icon to edit the name, or the trash can icon to delete it entirely.

Adding a New Step Note
In addition to using statuses, you can also add a Step Noteto any of your custom funnel categories. Step notes are used to save additional information about that category for each prospect.
To add a new step note for a prospect, click the orangeAdd Step Notebutton underneath the status bar.
A Step Note pop-up window will open with a text editor box where you can enter the note. ClickSaveto add the note to the category.
Once a step note has been added, you can view it by hovering over the green "Edit Step Note" button with your cursor.
Toedit the step note, click "Edit Step Note" to open the text editor and make modifications.
If you would like todelete a step note, delete all of the text in the box and then click "Update".



How to schedule interviews
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-schedule-interviews

How to schedule interviews
Learn how to schedule, reschedule, and delete interviews inside the hiring module.

Last updated on 29 Jul, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ how to schedule prospect interviews
Ģ how to reschedule or delete interviews

How do I schedule an interview?
There are three different areas within the hiring module where you can schedule an interview with your prospect: the Interviews section, the Onboarding section, or the Prospect Details page.

Schedule an Interview from the Interviews Section

The primary area where you can view and manage all scheduled interviews will be the Interviews section in the top menu.

To schedule a new interview, click the green Schedule Interview bottom at the top of the page.

A "Schedule Interview" menu will open on the left side of the page.

Select the Prospect Name from the top drop-down menu and then select the Date, Start Time, and End Time.

Below the date and time, there are options to add a Private Note. This is something that only the admin will see. There is also a Shared Note box to add a message that the prospect will be able to see.

If you have enabled prospect notifications for scheduling interviews, check the box next to Send Notifications. This will alert the prospect that their interview has been scheduled via email and/or SMS, depending on your settings. For more information about how to set up your hiring module notifications, click here.

Once you are finished, click the blue Schedule Interview button to save the interview into the system.

Schedule an Interview from the Onboarding Section

You are also able to schedule an interview from inside your Funnels in the Onboarding section.

Each prospect you have added to your funnel will have several action buttons listed below their name and contact information. The first icon is a Schedule Interview button.

Clicking this icon will launch the "Add New Interview" side menu.

Schedule an Interview from the Prospect Details Page

The third location you can schedule an interview is directly from the Prospect Details page. First, click on the Prospects section in the top menu to view the list of your prospects.

To open the Prospect Details page, you can either click the prospect's Name and it will open the page, or you can select Options and View on the far right-side in their row.

In the menu on the left side of the screen, there is a blue Schedule Interview button. Click the button to schedule the interview.

Once the interview is saved, you will see it listed under the Activities section inside the Prospect Details page.

Click the View Interview link to view your new interview in the Interviews section.

How do I reschedule or delete an interview?
You can view your scheduled interviews under the Interview section in list-view or calendar-view depending on your preference.

Editing an Interview

To edit an interview from the list view, click on Options and select Edit.

If you are in calendar view, click on the prospects' name under the date the interview is scheduled for.

This will open the Schedule Interview side menu where you can edit the date, start time, end time, private note, and/or shared note.

Be sure to click Update Interview once you are done making your changes.

Canceling an Interview

To cancel or delete an interview, go to list view, click on Options and select Delete.

A pop-up window will appear, asking if you are sure you want to delete the selected interview.

Click Yes to proceed with the deletion. After clicking yes, you will see a green notification letting you know the interview had been deleted successfully.



How to create a provider or staff member directly from the hiring module
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-create-a-provider-or-staff-member-directly-from-the-hiring-module

How to create a provider or staff member directly from the hiring module
Learn how to create a new provider or staff account from a prospect in the hiring module.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to turn a prospect into a provider or staff member
Ģ Where to view all onboarded prospects

How do I create a provider or staff member from inside the hiring module?
Once your prospect has completed the hiring process, you are ready to create their provider or staff account. Instead of manually entering their information into the Providers section of your account, you can simply click a "Create Member" button inside the hiring module.

Three different areas contain the "create member" button: the Onboarding section, the Prospects section, or the Prospect Details page.

Create a New Provider/Staff Account from the Onboarding Section

You can create a new member from inside your Funnels in the Onboarding section.

Each prospect you have added to your funnel will have several action buttons listed below their name and contact information. The first icon in the second row is the Create Member button.

After clicking the button, a Create Member side menu will appear on the left.

This sidebar contains all the same sections you would see in the Add New Provider window from the Providers section, with a few extra options that pertain to the hiring module.

1384 Member type - Select which type of account you would like to create: Provider or Staff.
1385 Prospect belongs to - If you have selected Provider, check the boxes to indicate if the system should great an Individual account, add them to a Team, or both. If you check the Team box, you must have an existing team in the Providers section already.
1386 Should we mark this member as onboarded? - If you select Yes, the prospect's status will be changed to "onboarded" and will no longer be listed under the active "Prospects" section.
1387 Should we remove prospect from funnel(s)? - Select Yes to remove the prospect for the funnel(s) that have been added to. If you would like to keep the prospect in your funnels for general reference, select No.
1388 First name - Edit their first name.
1389 Last name - Edit their last name.
1390 Email - Edit their email address. Please be sure the email address is not already associated with an existing account in your store.
1391 Phone number - Edit their phone number.
1392 Alt. phone no - Edit or add an alternative phone number.
1393 Gender - Select a gender if you'd like. The default will always be set to "unspecified".
1394 Address - Edit the prospect's address.
1395 Apt. no. - Edit or add an apartment or unit number to the address.
1396 Send invitation - If you have enabled your notifications, you can send an invitation to your prospect by checking the box next to By Email and/or By SMS. This will send your prospect a link to create their password and log in to their new account. For more information on setting up notifications in the hiring module, click here.

Click the blue "Add" button at the bottom of the window to save the new profile, or "Cancel" to return to the previous page.

Create a New Provider/Staff Account from the Prospects Section

Another section you can create a new member in is the Prospects section.

Click on Prospects from the top menu, then click Options and Create Member.

This will launch the Create Member pop-up window where you can confirm the member details.

Remember to click the blue Add button to save the new account.

Create a New Provider/Staff Account from the Prospect Details Page

The third location you can create a new member is directly from the Prospect Details page. First, click on the Prospects section in the top menu to view the list of your prospects.

To open the Prospect Details page, you can either click the prospect's Name and it will open the page, or you can select Options and View on the far right-side in their row.

In the menu on the left side of the screen, there is an orange Create Member button. Click the button to launch the Create Member pop-up window.

Remember to click the blue Add button to save the account.

Where can I view a list of my onboarded prospects?
From Inside the Hiring Module

To view all of your onboarded prospects from inside the hiring module, go to the Prospects tab.

Click on the Prospects Status drop-down menu and select Onboarded. You can now see all prospects who have been marked as onboarded.

From the Providers Section

If you have created a provider account, the account will now be visible under the Providers section in the main Bookingkoala dashboard.

From the left-side menu, click on Providers, then Providers.

From the Staff Section

If you have created a staff account, the account can be viewed by going to:

Settings > Staff > Staff Members

The new account will be listed under your Staff Members section.



How to send out a quiz
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-out-a-quiz

How to send out a quiz
Learn how to send a quiz to your prospects from the hiring module.

Last updated on 29 Jul, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ how to send quizzes to your prospects
Ģ where to view "sent out" quizzes

How do I send a quiz?
If you have built a quiz as part of your hiring funnel, you can send it out directly to your prospects from within the hiring module. For more information on how to set up your quizzes, click here.

Before you send out your quizzes, you will also need to ensure that your notifications settings have been set up and enabled. For more information on how to do this, click here.

There are three sections where you can send out quizzes: the Quizzes section, the Onboarding Funnel, and the Prospect Details Page.

Send A Quiz From The Quizzes Section

The Quizzes section is the primary location to view and send out quizzes. Click on the blue Send Quiz button on the top left side of the page.

If you have both SMS and Email notifications enabled, select which method in which you would like to use to deliver the quiz.

After selecting Email or SMS, a Send Quiz sidebar will appear on the left side of the page.

1397 Choose Quiz - Select which quiz you would like to send out.
1398 Search Prospect - Use the search bar to narrow the list of prospects to select. Click the magnifying glass icon to search.
1399 Choose Prospect - Check the box next to the prospect you would like to send the quiz to. You can select multiple prospects or choose "Select All" to send the quiz to all prospects.
1400 Send - Click the blue "Send" button to send out the quizzes.
1401 Cancel - Click "Cancel" to return to the Quizzes section.

Once a quiz has been sent out, you will see it in the Quizzes section.

The quiz status will display "Sent Out - Email" or "Sent Out - SMS" depending on the method you chose.

If you'd like to view a list of just the "sent-out" quizzes, click the Quizzes drop-down menu and select "Sent Out".

Send A Quiz From The Onboarding Funnel

To send out a quiz from a funnel, locate the prospect's name and click on the "paper airplane" icon below their basic information.

Select "Send Quiz" and then pick either "Email" or "SMS".

This will launch the "Send Quiz" page as pictured in the previous method.

Send A Quiz From The Prospect Details Page

You can also send out a quiz directly from the Prospect Details page.

First, click on the Prospects section in the top menu to view the list of your prospects.

To open the Prospect Details page, you can either click the prospect's Name and it will open the page, or you can select Options and View on the far right-side in their row.

At the bottom of the menu on the left, click the grey Send Form drop-down menu. Click Send Quiz and select Email or SMS to continue.

A Send Quiz popup will appear where you can select which quiz you'd like to send to the applicant.

Once the quiz has been sent, you will see a new log under the Activities section inside the Prospect Details page.



How to send out a hiring form
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-out-a-hiring-form

How to send out a hiring form
Learn how to send hiring forms to your prospects.

Last updated on 29 Jul, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ how to send out forms to your prospects
Ģ where to view sent out forms
Ģ where to view submitted forms

How do I send a form?
Once you have built a form, you are ready to send it out to your prospects. For more information about hiring forms and how to set one up, click here.

Before you send out a form, you will also need to ensure that your notifications settings have been set up and enabled. For more information on how to do this, click here.

Send A Form From The Onboarding Funnel

To send out a form from a funnel, locate the prospect's name and click on the "paper airplane" icon below their basic information.

Select "Send Form" and then pick either "Email" or "SMS".

This will launch the "Send Form" popup. Select which form you'd like to send to the applicant.

Click the blue Send button to send out the form.

Send a Form from the Prospect Details Page

You can also send a form from the Prospect Details page.

First, click on the Prospects section in the top menu to view the list of your prospects.

To open the Prospect Details page, you can either click the prospect's Name and it will open the page, or you can select Options and View on the far right-side in their row.

At the bottom of the menu on the left, click the grey Send Form drop-down menu. Click Send Form and select Email or SMS to continue.

A Send Form popup will appear where you can select which form you'd like to send to the applicant.

Click the blue Send button to send out the form.

Once the form has been sent, you will see a new log under the Activities section inside the Prospect Details page.

View Sent Forms
After you send a form to a prospect, you can see which form has been sent to whom under the Prospects section under the Form column.

To view the applicants that you have sent a specific form to, click on the Forms drop-down menu and select the form name.

View Submitted Forms
If you have enabled notifications, you will receive an alert once a new form has been filled out.

To view submitted forms, go to the Prospect Details page for that prospect, and look under the Activities section.

If there are a lot of logs under the prospects activities section, you can use the activities dropdown menu to select "Prospects".

Click View Form to open the completed form.

You will be redirected to a new window where you can view the form responses.



How to send out a contract
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-out-a-contract

How to send out a contract
Learn how to send, resend, reject, download, and delete contracts to and from your prospects.

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ how to send out contracts to your prospects
Ģ where to view sent out and completed contracts
Ģ how to resend, reject, download, and delete contracts

How do I send a contract?
Part of your onboarding process will likely include having your prospect sign a contract. Once you have built a contract in the hiring module, you can send it directly to your prospect. For more information about how to create a new contract, click here.

You will also need to ensure that your notifications settings have been set up and enabled. For more information on how to do this, click here.

There are three places in the hiring module where you can send out contracts: the Contracts section, the Onboarding Funnel(s), and the Prospect Details page.

Send A Contract From The Contracts Section

The Contracts section is the primary location to view and send out contracts. Click on the blue Send Contract button on the top left side of the page.

If you have both SMS and Email notifications enabled, select which method in which you would like to use to deliver the contract.

After selecting Email or SMS, a Send Contract sidebar will appear on the left side of the page.

1402 Choose Contract Form - Select which contract you would like to send out.
1403 Search Prospect - Use the search bar to narrow the list of prospects to select. Click the magnifying glass icon to search.
1404 Choose Prospect - Check the box next to the prospect you would like to send the contract to. You can select multiple prospects or choose "Select All" to send the contract to all prospects.
1405 Send - Click the blue "Send" button to send out the contract.
1406 Cancel - Click "Cancel" to return to the Contracts section.

Once a contract has been sent out, you will see it in the Contracts section.

The contract status will display "Sent Out - Email" or "Sent Out - SMS" depending on the method you chose.

If you'd like to view a list of just the "sent-out" contracts, click the Contracts drop-down menu and select "Sent Out".

Send A Contract From The Onboarding Funnel

To send out a contract from a funnel, locate the prospect's name and click on the "paper airplane" icon below their basic information.

Select "Send Contract" and then pick either "Email" or "SMS".

This will launch the "Send Contract" page as pictured in the previous method.

Send A Contract From The Prospect Details Page

You can also send out a contract directly from the Prospect Details page.

First, click on the Prospects section in the top menu to view the list of your prospects.

To open the Prospect Details page, you can either click the prospect's Name and it will open the page, or you can select Options and View on the far right-side in their row.

At the bottom of the menu on the left, click the grey Send Form drop-down menu. Click Send Contract and select Email or SMS to continue.

A Send Contract popup will appear where you can select which contract you'd like to send to the applicant.

Once the contract has been sent, you will see a new log under the Activities section inside the Prospect Details page.

View Completed Contracts
If you have enabled notifications, you will receive an alert once a new contract has been completed by your prospect.

Viewing Contracts from the Contracts Section

The primary place to view your contracts is from the Contracts section.

If you'd like to view a list of just the completed contracts, click the Contracts drop-down menu and select "Completed".

The far left of each row has a list of action buttons. Click Options to view them.

1407 View - Click "view" to be brought to the Prospect Details Page. Under Activities, you will be able to view the completed contract.
1408 Re-Send - Click this to send the contract again. A pop-up window will appear where you can select the sending type: email or SMS. Click Yes to resend the contract to the prospect.
1409 Reject - Click this if you would like to reject a prospect after a contract has been completed. A pop-up window will appear asking if you are sure you would like to reject the contract and the prospect. You can also check the box to exclude a notification from being sent to the prospect. Click Yes to proceed with the rejection.
1410 Download Contract - Clicking this will download a copy of the contract onto your device.
1411 Delete - Click "Delete" to completely remove this completed contract from the hiring module. A pop-up window will open, asking if you are sure you would like to delete the contract. Click Yes to proceed with the deletion.

Viewing Contracts from the Prospect Details Page

You can also view any completed contracts on the Prospect Details page under the Activities section.

If there are a lot of logs under the prospects activities section, you can use the activities dropdown menu to select "Contracts".

Click View Contract to open the completed form.

You will be redirected to a new window where you can view the contact details.



How to send emails and SMS messages to a prospect
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-emails-and-sms-messages-to-a-prospect

How to send emails and SMS messages to a prospect
Learn how to send emails and SMS messages to your prospects from the hiring module.

Last updated on 29 Jul, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ how to send emails from the hiring module
Ģ how to send SMS messages from the hiring module

Before you can start sending out emails and SMS messages to your prospects, please make sure you have set up your hiring module Notifications. Click here to learn more if you have not done so yet.

Sending Emails and SMS Messages to a Prospect
There are two different locations in the hiring module where you can send out emails and text messages: the Onboarding section, and the Prospect Details page.

Sending Messages from the Onboarding Section
You can send messages from inside your funnels in the Onboarding section. Once a prospect has been added to a funnel, they will have several action buttons listed under their name and contact information.

Send an Email

To send an email, click the "Send Message" button and then click on "Send Email".

This will open a Send Email pop-up window.

1412 Send To - The prospect's email address will be automatically copied into this box or you can enter a different email.
1413 Subject - Enter the subject line for this email.
1414 Preview - View what the email will look like when received by the prospect.
1415 Email - Enter your email content into the content editor box below. There are a wide variety of formatting tools to customize exactly how you want your template to look.
1416 Signature - Click this to create and add an email signature. A pop-up window till open where you can edit the content.
1416.1 Add & Save - Click this to add this signature to your current email and to save it for use in future emails.
1416.2 Add - Insert your signature without saving or updating it for future use.
1416.3 Cancel - Click here to return to your email without adding a signature.
1417 Templates- Click "Templates" to insert a canned response template into your email.
A pop-up window will display all your canned responses. Click the template to insert it into the email body.
1418 Insert Short Codes - Click this button to view a list of all shortcodes that work in your email templates.
1419 Send - Once you are finished with your email, click the blue "Send" button.
1420 Send Test Email- Click this button to send a test email of this message.
A pop-up box will appear where you can enter the email address. ClickSend to send out the test message. Please note that any shortcodes will be populated with random data.
1421 Cancel - Click "Cancel" to return to the previous page.

Once your email has been sent, a green system alert will appear in the right-top corner letting you know the email has been sent successfully.

Send an SMS

To send an SMS, click the "Send Message" button and select "Send SMS".

This will open a Send SMS pop-up window.

1422 Phone Number - The prospect's phone number will be automatically copied into this box or you can enter a different phone number.
1423 Message - Enter the message you would like to send into this box.
1424 Link - Click this button to insert a link into your message.
1425 Insert Short Codes - Click this button to view a list of all shortcodes that work in your SMS templates.
1426 Send Test SMS- Click this button to send a test SMS of this message.
A pop-up box will appear where you can enter the phone number. ClickSend to send out the test message.
1427 Choose Template- Click this to insert a canned response template into your SMS.
A pop-up window will display all your canned responses. Click the template to insert it into the message.
1428 Character Limit - Please note the message cannot exceed 1000 total characters.
1429 Send - Once you are finished constructing the SMS, click the blue "Send" button.
1430 Cancel - Click "Cancel" to return to the previous page.

Once your SMS has been sent, a green system alert will appear in the right-top corner letting you know the SMS has been sent successfully.

Sending Messages from the Prospect Details Page
You can also send emails and SMS messages directly from within their Prospect Details page.

Click on the Prospects section in the top menu to view the list of your prospects.

To open the Prospect Details page, you can either click the prospect's Name and it will open the page, or you can select Options and View on the far right-side in their row.

At the bottom of the menu on the left, click the grey Send Message drop-down menu. Select Email or SMS to continue.

Send an Email

If you click "Email", the Send Email pop-up window will open. Use the content editor to craft your message and then click Send, or, Cancel to go back without sending a message.

Once your email has been sent, a green system alert will appear in the right-top corner letting you know the email has been sent successfully.

Send an SMS

If you click "SMS", the Send SMS pop-up window will open. Use the content editor to craft your message and then click Send, or, Cancel to go back without sending a message.

Once your SMS has been sent, a green system alert will appear in the right-top corner letting you know the SMS has been sent successfully.



How to send out campaigns from inside the hiring module
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-send-out-campaigns-from-inside-the-hiring-module

How to send out campaigns from inside the hiring module
Learn how to utilize campaigns in the hiring module, including how to send out campaigns and add them to funnel steps.

Last updated on 28 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you learn how to:
Ģ Set up a hiring campaign
Ģ Add campaigns to your funnels
Ģ Start a campaign for a prospect

Before You Begin
You must have a Premium subscription to access the Campaign Module and the Onboarding section of the Hiring Module.
You will also need to set up a funnel in the Hiring Module.

Add a New Audience List
First, you will need to create a new audience inside the Campaign Module. This is where your prospects' email addresses/phone numbers will be collected. Later on, you will select this audience when building your campaign.

To begin, go to the left side menu and click on:
Marketing > Campaigns

This will bring you into the Campaign Module. Click on the "Create "Audience" menu on the top right corner of the page and select "New Audience".
Enter the Audience Name into the pop-up window, then press the blue "Save" button.

Create an Automated Email Campaign
Next, you will set up an Automated Email Campaign. Automated campaigns contain different types of triggers to customize when your campaign email(s) will be sent out.

To begin, click on the "Campaigns" drop-down menu at the top of the page and select "Email", then "Automated".
Click the blue "Create Automation" button in the top-right corner of the screen.
Enter the Campaign Name into the first box, and then select which Audience you will connect to this campaign. Click the blue "Add" button to generate the new campaign.
You will be brought to the "Update Automation" page. To begin setting up your automation triggers and email, click the blue "Edit & Preview" just below where it says "Send Test".

Basic Information
On the "Basic Information" page, enter a Name for your email sequence. This will only be seen by you. You can also add a Description for your own reference.
Next, enter the Email Subject into the box below. If you'd like, you can use shortcodes in the email subject to populate a field with custom information. You can insert any of these shortcodes by clicking the copy button and then pasting them into the Subject line.
Below, confirm the "From" sender email. Click the blue "Change" button to use a different email address to send out this campaign email. You can also enter a "Sender Name" and list a separate "Reply-To" email if you desire.

Trigger
Next, select a Trigger for the campaign. Click the blue "Change Trigger" button to see a list of all possible triggers for this first campaign sequence. For the system to add prospects to this campaign from the Hiring Module, you will need to select the trigger called "Added through Form".

Under "Delay", click the grey drop-down box to select when you would like the campaign to be sent out.
Ģ Select "Immediately" for the campaign to be sent out to the prospect as soon as their email is added to the audience list.
Ģ Select "Hour(s)" to delay sending out the email by a set number of hours.
Ģ Select "Day(s)" to delay sending out the email by a set number of days.
Ģ Select "Week(s)" to delay sending out the email by a set number of weeks.
Most businesses will likely want the email to be sent immediately upon adding the prospect to the audience.

Schedule
Next, select which days the email will be sent out. If you want the email to be sent whenever it had been added, select "Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday".

Under "What time should emails be sent?", you can select one of the following options:
Ģ "As soon as possible" - The system will send out the emails immediately.
Ģ "Send at" - The system will send the emails out starting at a specific time.
? If you select this option, pick which time the system should start processing your campaign emails.

The checkbox next to "Exclude anyone who has an active booking" can be left checked or unchecked depending on your preference. If checked, any existing customers who apply to work with you will not be sent this campaign email.
At the bottom of the page, click the blue "Next" button to proceed to the next section.

Choose Template
In the next section, choose a layout for your email. Hover over each layout type and click the blue "Preview" to see an example of how it looks.
If you have created a master template, you can select it by clicking on the "Saved Templates" tab at the top of the page.
Once you have selected which template or layout you'd like to use, click the blue "Next" button at the bottom right of the screen.

Email Editor
In this section, you can edit the content of your campaign email.
Drag and drop blocks into the body of the email to insert different types of elements including text, boxed text, dividers, images, image cards, image + text, share bar, social follow, button, footer, custom code, and video.
Click/hover over on any block in the email body to view its action buttons.
Switch into the "Style" tab to control the font size, color, and general appearance of your email's sections.
Once you are done creating the campaign email, click the blue "Save and Continue" button at the top right side of the screen. Your campaign will be saved and you will be brought back to the Update Automation page.

If you finished all of the setup steps, the status for the campaign will say "Active". This means that the campaign is ready to be sent out automatically as soon as a new email is added to the selected audience list.
You can add additional campaign emails to any sequence by clicking the blue "Add More" button below your first email. Any additional emails you add to your campaign sequence will have extra options for triggers.

The following triggers can be added based on whatever actions occurred (or did not occur) in the first email:
Ģ Previous email sent - This email will be sent out just after the previous email in the sequence is sent.
Ģ Previous email opened - This email will be sent out as soon as the prospect opens the previous email.
Ģ Previous email not opened - This email will be sent out if the prospect does not click the previous email after a certain period of time.
Ģ Previous email clicked - This email will be sent once the prospect clicks any link inside the previous email.
Ģ Previous email not clicked - This email will be sent out after a certain amount of time if the prospect has not clicked a link in the previous email.
You can use these triggers to create follow-up emails, reminding your prospects to complete the next steps, or ask if they have any questions.

Activate Your Campaign
Once you have finished building your full campaign sequence, you will want to ensure it had been activated. Click on the grey "Back" button at the top right corner of the page to view the automation.
This will bring you back to the Automated Email Campaigns list. Click "Options", "Activate" next to your campaign to activate it.
A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you want to activate this campaign. Click "Yes" to proceed.
A green system notification will appear in the top right corner of the page letting you know the campaign has been activated successfully. Now, whenever prospects are added to the corresponding audience list, your campaign will be triggered.

Connecting Your Campaign to the Hiring Module
Once you have created your audience list and a campaign email, there are two different ways to connect your campaigns to the hiring module so prospects will receive your email(s). You can either add a campaign to a hiring funnel step or enable forms to collect prospect information.

Add a Campaign to a Funnel
If you would like to have more control over when your prospect is sent a campaign email, you can add a campaign to your funnel step(s).
To begin, go to the Onboarding section and select which funnel you would like to edit from the Funnels menu.
To add a campaign to a column, click on the pencil icon next to the column's name to edit it. An Update Column pop-up window will appear.
For "Enable email automation?" select "Yes". Then, select which audience your prospect's email will be collected in.
Click the blue Update button to save the new automation settings.
You will now see the column has been updated and a blue Start Campaign button has been added below the "Add Step Note" button.
Once you have enabled email automation in a column, you are ready to send out the campaign to that prospect.
Click the blue Start Campaign button to send out the campaign.
After clicking the button, a green system alert will let you know that the campaign was started successfully and that the prospect has been added to the selected audience.

Enable Forms to Collect Prospect Information
The other way you can automatically send out campaigns to your prospects is by enabling your forms to collect the prospect's information into your audience list. This is a good option for your business if you have embedded your hiring forms in an ad or on your website, or send the form link manually to your prospects.
To begin, open the Hiring Module and go to Settings > Forms.
Pick the form type by clicking on the "Prospects", "Quizzes", or "Contracts" tab from the left-side menu.
Click the pencil icon to edit the form. Inside the Form Editor, click on the grey Setting tab at the top center of the page.
Scroll down to where it says, "What list will all information be collected in?" and select the pertinent audience.
Check the box next to "Don't collect information from rejected prospects" if you have set up auto-reject for this form type. This means that rejected applicants' information will NOT be added to the audience list and they will not receive any campaign emails associated with that list.
Click the blue "Save & Publish" button at the top right corner of the page to update your form settings. Now, whenever a prospect completed this form, their email will be collected into the audience list. Any automated campaigns you have set up will be triggered and sent to the prospect.

How do I know if my automated campaign is working?
You can go to the Campaign Module to check that your automated campaign setup is working properly. Go to:
Marketing > Campaigns > Campaigns > Emails > Automated
Click on "Options", "Campaign Logs" to see a log of all prospects that have been sent that campaign email.



How to grade quizzes
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-grade-quizzes

How to grade quizzes
Learn where to view completed quizzes and how to change the grade inside a prospect's quiz.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you understand:
Ģ How quizzes are graded
Ģ Where to view rejected and completed quizzes
Ģ How to change the grade inside a prospect's quiz

How are quizzes graded?
If you use graded elements in your quiz, the completed quiz will be given a score. To learn how to add graded elements to your quiz, click here. To learn how to send a quiz to your prospect, click here.

The prospect's score will be a percentage based on the total number of correct answers. Once the quiz is submitted, you will be able to see it under the Quizzes section.

Locating Completed and Rejected Quizzes
To view all completed quizzes, go to the Quizzes section. Click the Quizzes drop-down menu and select "Completed".

You will now see only quizzes that have been completed by the prospects.

To view any quizzes that have been automatically rejected, go to the Quizzes section. Select "Rejected" from the Quizzes drop-down menu.

Viewing Quiz Results
To view the quiz results, click "Options" then "View Quiz". A new window will open to display the prospect's quiz.

You can also view the quiz answers from the Prospect Details page. Go to: Prospects > Options > View

The quiz can be viewed under the Activities section. Click the blue "View Quiz" link to open the prospect's submission.

A new window will open to display the prospect's quiz.

The Quiz Summary at the top will display the total number of questions, how many were correct, how many were incorrect, and the final score.

Grading a Quiz
Graded Elements For any questions with graded elements, the correct answer you set will be displayed below in green text.

Questions that have been answered correctly according to your settings will be marked as "Correct".

If you would like to mark an answer as wrong, click the drop-down box and select "Incorrect". The score will be automatically updated in the quiz summary.

If do not want an answer to count towards the prospect's final score, click the drop-down box and select "Skip". This will remove this question from the total graded questions altogether.

For Multiple Choice elements, the prospect must select ONLY the correct answers for the answer to be graded as "Correct".
For example, if the prospect selects all the correct answers but also selects an answer that is incorrect, the question will be marked as "Incorrect".

Non-Graded Elements For non-graded elements, like Text Input, Number, and Multi-Line Input, you will need to manually select a grade to determine the quiz's final score.

Updating the Quiz Score
Once you are finished grading each question, click the blue Update button at the bottom of the page. If you would like to reject the prospect based on the quiz score, click the red Reject button instead.

Once you click update, the quiz will be marked as "Graded" and the final score will be updated in the Quizzes section.

The Activities section of the Prospect Details page will also contain a link to the updated quiz.

Rejecting a Prospect from the Quiz Summary
If you would like to completely reject a prospect from the hiring process, you can do so by clicking "Reject" at the bottom of the Quiz Summary page.

This will remove the prospect from any hiring funnels they have been added to and will mark them as "rejected" in the Prospects tab.



How to add a hiring form to your website
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-add-a-hiring-form-to-your-website

How to add a hiring form to your website
Learn how to embed a hiring form into your website.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How embedded forms can help with the recruitment process
Ģ Where to find the form embed codes
Ģ How to embed a form into your website

Why would I embed forms into my website?
If you have built forms for your prospects to fill out, you may want to embed the form into a page on your website. To learn more about how to build a form, click here.

Embedding hiring forms will allow you to drive prospects to your website to view an application page, learn more about the position, and submit the form directly to your hiring module.

Locating the Form Embed Code
First, you will need to find the form code. Go to:
Settings > Forms > Prospects

Find the name of the form you would like to embed. Look under the action buttons on the far-left side and click the Embed Code icon.

An Embed Code pop-up with appear. Click the blue Copy Code button to copy the code.

A green system notification will let you know the code has been copied successfully. Click the red X to close the window.

Embedding the Form into Your Website
Once you have copied the form's code, you are ready to paste it into a page on your website.

If you use the BookingKoala to host your site, you can use the Website Builder to add the form to your site.

To begin, go to your main dashboard and click:
Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes

Click the orange Customize Theme button to open the web builder.

Embed the Form on a New Page
If you would like to add a new page for your form, click the "+ Add" button on the top left side of the menu and select "Page".

A pop-up window will ask you to give a Title to the page.

Click the blue Save button to generate the new page. You will also see a green system notification letting you know the page has been added successfully.

Hover over the page and click on one of the blue Add Section buttons. The Add Section sidebar will appear on the left side of the screen.

Scroll down to the bottom of the menu and click "Hiring Forms". Select which form you would like to use by clicking "Add This Form".

The form will be added to the page.

Embed the Form on an Existing Page
If you would like to embed the form on an existing page, select the page name from the Page menu at the top-center of the screen.

Select the page you would like to edit, then hover over the page content and click the blue "Add Section" button.

Select "Hiring Forms" from the side menu and pick which form you would like to use.

Click "Add to Form" to insert the form into the page.

Finishing Up
Once you are done editing the other sections, you can preview the page by clicking Preview in the top right corner of the website builder menu.

To save the page as a draft, click Save.

If you are ready to publish the page, click Save & Publish.



Hiring reports explained
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/hiring-reports-explained

Hiring reports explained
Learn how to use the hiring module's reports section to track overall progress.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where to find the reports section
Ģ What information is recorded in your reports
Ģ How to filter reports by date

What are hiring reports?
In addition to the main "Reports" section in your dashboard, there is also a hiring "Reports" section inside the hiring module.

To view it, open the Hiring Module and select Reports from the top menu.

The reports section shows a breakdown of how many prospects have been added, rejected, and onboarded.

1431 Date Range- Click this to select the date range for the report. The default is set to view all activity in the past 7 days. Click the date range box to open additional options.
You can select results for the last 30 days, last month, last 3 months, last 6 months, and last year. You can also select acustom time frame by selecting a start date and end date from the calendars.
1432 Prospects - This box will display the total number of prospects added within the selected time frame.
1433 View All - Click the blue "View all" link to be redirected to the Prospects section.
1434 Rejected - This box will display the total number of prospects that were rejected within the selected time frame.
1435 Onboarded - This box will display the total number of prospects that were onboarded within the selected time frame.
1436 Graph Key - New prospects are displayed in green, reject prospects in red, and onboarded prospects in blue.



Hiring settings explained
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/hiring-settings-explained

Hiring settings explained
Learn more about what the settings section controls inside the hiring module.

Last updated on 30 Dec, 2021

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ how to set up your general settings
Ģ how to view the logs section
Ģ where to control your form settings
Ģ where to control your notifications settings

Where are the hiring settings?
All of the settings that impact hiring are located in a special settings section inside the hiring module.

There are four sections in the "Settings" menu: Forms, Notifications, Logs, and Settings.

Forms
Select "Forms" to view and manage all of your forms. There are three tabs to organize your forms by type: Prospects, Quizzes, and Contracts.

Each tab has a menu where you can switch from viewing Active Forms to Archived Forms or Draft Forms.
You can also use the search bar to search for a form by name.
Click the blue "Create New" to add a new form of this type.

All Active Forms will have a list of action buttons next to them.
1437 Embed Code - View and copy the form's code to embed it into a webpage.
1438 Copy Link - Copy a link to this form to share with someone else.
1439 View Prospects - Click this to be redirected to the Prospects section to view a list of all prospects who have been sent or completed this form.
1440 Edit - Click "edit" to open the form builder.
1441 Move to Archive - Click this to move the form to the archived list. Archiving will permanently stop the flow of applications to this form. You can reactivate the form at any time, and all data that you received from form submissions will also remain saved.
1442 Duplicate - Create a duplicate of this form. This will launch the form builder where you can make any modifications.

All Archived Forms will also have a list of action buttons next to them.
1443 Duplicate - Create a duplicate of this form. This will launch the form builder where you can make any modifications.
1444 Restore As Active - To resume using a form you have previously archived, click this icon. The form can now be used again by your prospects.
1445 Delete - Click this icon to permanently delete the form and its submissions. This cannot be undone. A pop-up window will ask you to confirm you are sure you want to delete it. Click "Yes" to proceed.

All Draft Forms will have action buttons as well.
1446 Embed Code - View and copy the form's code to embed it into a webpage.
1447 View Prospects - Click this to be redirected to the Prospects section to view a list of all prospects who have been sent or completed this form.
1448 Edit - Click "edit" to open the form builder.
1449 Duplicate - Create a duplicate of this form. This will launch the form builder where you can make any modifications.
1450 Delete - Click this icon to permanently delete the form and its submissions. This cannot be undone. A pop-up window will ask you to confirm you are sure you want to delete it. Click "Yes" to proceed.

Notification Settings
All of your hiring notifications are controlled within the Notifications section of the settings. There are three subcategories within Notifications to help you better manage our settings for Emails, SMS, and System Alerts.

View Logs
Click Logs to view activity logs inside the hiring module. There are three sections of logs: System Logs, Email Logs, and SMS Logs.

System Logs
The System Logs page allows you to view and filter activity from inside the hiring module.
System logs can be filtered by clicking the "All" drop-down menu and selecting:
Ģ Prospects
Ģ Interviews
Ģ Onboarding
Ģ Funnels
Ģ Quizzes
Ģ Contracts
Ģ Forms
Ģ Notifications
Ģ Settings

You can also select a date or date range to see logs for a specific time period.
Use the search bar to type in a prospect name or type of activity to view logs for that term.
To view a more detailed description of the log activity, click View. You can also see a link to any submitted forms, quizzes, or contracts from inside the detail view.

Email Logs
Email Logs will display if you have set up a sender email in your notification settings.
Select a date or date range to see email logs for a specific time period.
Use the search bar to type in a prospect name or email address to view logs for that prospect.

Each email log will have also have a Status. The following are used to help you see the current status of the sent email:
Ģ Sent - The "send email request" to the hiring email server was successful and it will attempt to deliver the message.
Ģ Rejected - The hiring email server accepted the email, determined that it contained a virus, and rejected it. The server did not attempt to deliver the email to the recipient's mail server.
Ģ Bounced - The recipient's mail server permanently rejected the email.
Ģ Complained - The email was successfully delivered to the recipient, but the recipient marked the email as spam.
Ģ Delivered - The hiring email server successfully delivered the email to the recipient's mail server.
Ģ Opened - The recipient received the message and opened it in their email client.
Ģ Clicked - The recipient received the message, opened it in their email client, and clicked a link inside.

SMS Logs
SMS Logs will display only if you have set up a sender phone number in your notification settings.
Select a date or date range to see SMS logs for a specific time period.
Use the search bar to type in a prospect name or phone number to view logs for that prospect.

Each SMS log will have also have a Status. The following are used to help you see the current status of the sent SMS:
Ģ Sent - The "send SMS request" to the hiring server was successful and it will attempt to deliver the message.
Ģ Delivered - The hiring server successfully delivered the SMS to the recipient's phone.

General Settings
The last section in the "Settings" menu is general Settings for the entire hiring Module. There are two subcategories within this section: General, and Notifications.

General
To view the General settings, click the "plus sign" icon on the left to expand the section. To hide the section, click on the "minus sign" icon.

1451 Should we reject an application if someone was already rejected?
1451.1 Yes - If you select "Yes", any new applications that match a rejected prospect's application will be automatically rejected by the system.
1451.2 No - If you select "No", the system will show new applications for previously rejected candidates.
1452 Automatically reject within how many days?
1452.1 If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, select the time frame in which new applications will be automatically rejected: within 30 days, 60 days, or 90 days.
1452.2 For example, if you select "90 days", all new applications from the rejected prospect will be automatically rejected if they are received within 90 days from the initially rejected application.
1453 Should we automatically reject prospects based on quiz scores?
1453.1 Yes - If you select "Yes", prospects will be automatically rejected by the system if they do not achieve a certain score on their quiz.
1453.2 No - If you select "No", all quizzes will come in without rejecting any prospects based on their final score.
1454 Minimum score
1454.1 If you selected "Yes" for the previous question, use the arrows to adjust the minimum score the prospect must receive to pass the quiz.
1455 When creating a member, should we mark them automatically as onboarded or not?
1455.1 Yes - If you select "Yes", your prospect's status will be changed from "prospect" to "onboarded".
1455.2 No - If you select "No", your prospect's status will remain as "prospect" in the hiring module.
1456 Please choose the time duration how much time the "new" stage will show?
1456.1 This setting controls when the green New tag is displayed next to a prospect in the hiring module. You can select as little as one day or as many as seven days before the tag is removed.

Notifications
The Notification settings are listed right below the General section. Click the "plus sign" icon on the left to expand the section. To hide the section, click on the "minus sign" icon.

1457 Display all system alerts inside the hiring module?
1457.1 Yes - If you select "Yes", all general system alerts from your main dashboard will be displayed from within the hiring module so you do not miss any other activity in your account.
1457.2 No - If you select "No", only the system alerts you have enabled in the notifications settings section will display while you are inside the hiring module.
1458 Display all hiring notifications in the main dashboard or only display them inside the hiring module?
1458.1 Display notifications only inside the hiring module - Select this option if you only want to see hiring system alerts when you are inside the hiring module.
1458.2 Display in the main dashboard and inside the hiring module - Select this option if you would like to display your hiring module system alerts in your main dashboard.

Once you have finished making your selections, please be sure to click the blue Save button at the bottom of the page.



Use two "thank you" pages to attract more qualified leads
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/use-two-thank-you-pages-to-attract-more-qualified-leads

Use two "thank you" pages to attract more qualified leads
Learn how to configure multiple "thank you" pages to better target your ads and attract more qualified leads to your hiring form.

Last updated on 11 Jan, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Why two "thank you" pages can help with targeting your hiring ads
Ģ How to add a second "thank you" page to a hiring form
Ģ How to use conditions to send prospects to a specific thank you page

How does having two "thank you" pages help with attracting leads?
If you use ads to attract leads from Facebook, Google, or another site, you may benefit from using more than one "thank you" page for your prospect forms.

Most marketing platforms use tracking codes inserted in web pages to gather information on who accessed that page. Whenever a new user lands on the page, the platform looks at their data and uses it to find similar users.

If you are using one "thank you" page for your prospect form, the system will use all applicants' information to target your ads. By creating a second "thank you" page that identifies and tracks the high-quality applicants, your ads will become more focused on attracting similar leads.

Add a Second "Thank You" Page
To set up a second "thank you" page, you will first need to have created a form in the hiring module. For more information about how to build a hiring form, click here.

To start, open the Hiring Module and go to:

Settings > Forms > Prospects

Click the pencil/edit icon next to the form you would like to modify.

You will be brought into the Form Builder. Click on "Settings" at the top-center of the page, and then select the "Thank you page" tab on the left-side menu.

Click the blue "Add Thank You Page" button at the top right corner of the page.

First, create a Name for the page. The Page URL will auto-fill with the name you enter. You can change the URL to something else by clicking inside the text box.

Next, create the Page Content. If you would like to use a default template for the page, you can insert one by clicking the grey "Choose Template" button.

You can modify or add new content using the tools in the text editor box. You can edit/insert text, font style/size/color, graphics, etc.

Once you are finished editing the page content, paste your Tracking Code into the box at the bottom.

Remember to click the blue "Save" button at the top of the page to save your new "thank you" page. You will see a green system notification letting you know the page has been saved successfully. You will now see both pages listed in the Thank You Page section.

Setting Up "Thank You" Page Conditions
After you have created the second "thank you" page, you will need to set up conditions so only qualified applicants will land on the page.

Under the form's Settings section, click on the "Conditions" tab in the left-side menu.

Click on the "Thank you page" box to begin adding the conditions.

You will be redirected to a Conditions page. Here, you will create the conditional statements that lead to your new "thank you" page. Each conditional statement is built by selecting options for "IF", "STATE", and "Do".

If

First, select which field or question you would like to add a condition. The drop-down menu will display any part of the form where the prospect can submit an answer.

In this example, we have selected the question "Do you have any of the following? (Check all that apply)".

State

Next, select the field state for the question. The field state lets the system know it should compare the prospect's answer to the answer you have designated.

The options for the state depend on the field you selected. However, the four most common options are:

Ģ Is Equal To - The action will be performed if your answer is equal to the prospect's answer
Ģ Is Not Equal To - The action will be performed if your answer is NOT equal to the prospect's answer
Ģ Is Empty - The action will be performed if the prospect left the answer empty.
Ģ Is Filled - The action will be performed if the prospect has filled out an answer.

Some fields, like first name, last name, phone number, and today's date, will only have states for "Empty" or "Filled".

Other fields, like email addresses, have additional states like "Starts With", "Doesn't Start With", "Ends With", "Doesn't End With", "Contains", and "Does Not Contain". For more information on different states and how they work with conditions, click here and scroll to the section titled "Conditions".

In this example, we selected "Is Equal To".

Target

If you have selected any state besides "Is Empty" or "Is Filled", you will need to designate a target. The target is the answer/answers that will be compared to the prospect's input.

The TARGET menu has two options: Value and Another Field.

Value

If you select "Value", this means you will select an answer from this question for comparison.

In this example, we selected the answer "Personal liability insurance".

Another Field

If you select "Another Field", you will select an answer from a different question in the form to compare.

In this example, we selected the compare the answer for this question to the answer for another question, "Which services do you have prior experience in?"

Multiple IF Rules and Actions

You can also add multiple rules for a condition by clicking the blue "+" icon.

If there is more than one IF statement, you can select whether you want the actions to be performed if Any or All rules are met.

In this example, we added a second value to the condition, "Legal authorization to work in the US". Then, we updated the box below to "All". This means that the action will only be performed if the prospect selected both of these answers for this question.

4. Do

After you have finished setting up your IF/STATE fields, you will need to select which action is triggered by the condition. Click the drop-down menu next to "Do" and select the new "thank you" page you just created.

Click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page to save the condition for the "thank you" page.

You will see a green notification in the top-right corner letting you know the form has been saved and published successfully. The new condition will now be listed under the Conditions tab.

Once your form has been published, you can start using it to gather leads for your business. By only inserting a tracking code onto the new "thank you" page for qualified candidates, your marketing platform will start to target more qualified leads similar to these.



17. Reports
Articles in this collection (1):

1459 Reports overview



Reports overview
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/reports-overview

Reports overview
Learn about all of your reports, including how to apply filters to each report.

Last updated on 28 May, 2024

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Learn about each report section
Ģ See how each report can be filtered

Who has access to reports?
Inside BookingKoala, you can view your reports in the dashboard from the Reports tab if you have a Growing or Premiumsubscription.
The Starter plan does not have access to the Reports section.

Reports Overview
From here, you will have access to a quick overview of 6 reports and you can use the filter at the top of the page to narrow down and specify your results.

6 reports:
1460 Revenue: See how much money your company is bringing in.
1461 Bookings: Learn how many bookings you are booking.
1462 Payments: Learn how many payments are being sent to your providers.
1463 Referrals: See how well your referral system is performing.
1464 Trends: Learn more details about your services and revenue.
1465 Ratings: Learn how your company is doing.

On the bottom of the page under "More Reports" you will have access to three other reports:
1466 Cancellation Reports: See why your customers are canceling your services.
1467 Services: See which services are being booked most.
1468 Busiest Slowest Time: See which times are the busiest at your company.
1469 Customer Details: See how many new and active customers you have and what sort of revenue are they bringing to your company.

Report Filters
All of the popular reports on the main Reports page can be filtered by date / period, industry, and location.
Under each of the reports, you can click the blue "Go To Reports" button to gain more options.
Some reports have additional filters available by clicking thekey icon at the top right corner of the Reports page.

Reports Details
Here is what you can check within each report.

Revenue Report See how much money your company is bringing in.
1470 Total Revenue: Includes service fees, refunds given, sales tax, tips, parking, cancelations charged, adjustments made, and reschedule fees charges; and excludes declined payments.
1471 Revenue Excluding Variables: Includes adjustments made and cancelation fees charges; and excludes service fees, tips, parking, sales tax, rescheduling fees, and declined payments.
1472 Tips (when activated): All tips given by the customers.
1473 Parking (when activated): All payments towards the provider's parking given by the customers.
1474 Service Fees (when activated): If you charge a fee for providers to travel; here, all fees collected from customers.
1475 Sales Tax: All sales tax collected.
1476 Cancelation Charges (when activated): If you charge cancelation fees, the total cancelation fees charged without sales tax.
1477 Reschedule Fees (when activated): If you charge reschedule fees, the total reschedule fees charged without sales tax.
1478 Refunds Given: Any refunds made through BookingKoala will be shown here, including refunds made for booking charges, additional charges, cancelation fees, tips, and rescheduling fees.
1479 Declined Payments: The total of all declined payments.

Bookings Report See how many bookings your company is bringing in.
1480 Total Bookings: The total number of bookings set for the selected period including unassigned bookings.
1481 Bookings Per Frequency:
? One Time: All bookings on the schedule set for a one-time occurrence.
? Weekly: All bookings on the schedule set for a weekly frequency.
? Every 2 Weeks: All bookings on the schedule set for an every 2 weeks frequency.
? Every 4 Weeks: All bookings on the schedule set for an every 4 weeks frequency.
? Etc.
1482 Canceled Bookings: The total number of bookings canceled including those on the same day.
1483 Canceled Same Day: The total number of bookings canceled on the day of the service.
1484 Unassigned Bookings: The total number of bookings in the unassigned folder for the selected period.

Payments Report Learn how many payments are being sent to your providers.
1485 Total Payment: Includes service fees, bonuses, tips, parking paid by customers, and reimbursements if there are any.
1486 Payments Excluding Variables: Excludes service fees, bonuses, tips, parking paid by customers, and reimbursements.
1487 Tip: All tips given by customers.
1488 Parking: All parking payments given by customers.
1489 Service Fee: All service fees paid by customers.
1490 Bonus: All bonuses added for providers by admin and staff.
1491 Cancelation Fee: All cancelation fee payouts are totaled here.
1492 Fuel Reimbursement: If any fuel reimbursements or other reimbursements were made, they will be shown here.
1493 Adjustment Payment: If an adjustment was made towards any payout it will be shown here.

Referrals Report See how well your referral system is performing.
1494 Referrals: Total number of bookings made from a referral that were marked as complete.
1495 Recurring customers (total recurring bookings): Total number of recurring bookings generated from a referral that were marked as complete.
1496 One-time customers (total one-time bookings): Total number of one-time bookings generated from a referral that were marked as complete.
1497 Top 10 successful referrals: Top 10 customers with the most successful referrals.
1498 Tip 10 referrals sent out: Top 10 customers with the most referrals sent out.

Trends Report Learn more details about your services and revenue.
1499 Revenue Per Booking: Includes service fee, refunds given, sales tax, tips, parking, cancelations charged, and adjustments made; and excludes declined payments; divided by the total number of bookings in the selected period.
1500 Excluding Variables: Includes adjustments made and cancelation fees charged; excludes service fees, tips, parking, sales tax, and declined payments; divided by the total number of bookings in the selected period.
1501 Average Bookings Per Customer: The total number of bookings divided by the total number of customers.
1502 Average Recurring Bookings Per Customer: The total number of recurring bookings divided by the total number of recurring customers.

Ratings Report Learn how your company's approval of services is doing.
1503 Overall Rating: Average rating of your company.
1504 Company Rating: Break down per each star rating.

Cancelation Reasons Report See why your customers cancel your services, broken down by recurring frequency.
1505 Filters: The report above is filtered to show cancelations for all locations and industries this year.
1506 Frequency of Service: Weekly. Four of the cancelations from this year were from customers with weekly services.
1507 Frequency of Service: Every Other Week. Twelve of the cancelations from this year were from customers with every-other-weekly services.
1508 Reason for Cancelation: Too expensive. One-third of the cancellations made by every-other-week customers were because the service was too expensive.

Services Report Which services are being booked? See which extras and frequencies are the most popular.
1509 Filters: The report above is filtered to show service trends for all locations and industries this year.
1510 Extras Used Most: See which extras are booked the most frequently.
1511 Extras: Deep Cleaning, Move In/Out: Deep cleaning and move in/out cleaning are requested at nearly the same rate.
1512 Frequency Used Most: See which frequencies are booked the most often.
1513 Frequency: Every Other Week: Every other week is the most popular frequency for this business.

Busiest Slowest Time Report Which times are busiest at your company?
1514 Filters: The report above is filtered to show the busiest and slowest trends for all locations and industries this month.
1515 Busiest Time: The busiest time of day for this month is 9:00 AM with 9 total bookings.

Customers Report How many new and active customers do you have and what sort of revenue are they bringing to your company?
1516 Filters: The report above is filtered to show revenue trends for all locations and industries as of today's date.
1517 New Customers: There are no "new" customers as of today's date.
1518 Active Customers: There are a total of 8 active customers as of today's date.
1519 Active Every Other Week: Every other week brings in the most revenue out of all the recurring frequencies.
1520 Customers: All of the active customers for this period are recurring customers.
1521 Revenue: The majority of revenue for this period comes from recurring bookings.
1522 Filters: The report above is filtered to show revenue trends for all locations and industries for the last month.
1523 New Customer Revenue: There were 31 new customers last month which accounted for nearly $10,000 of the total revenue.
1524 New Booking Revenue: There were 582 new bookings last month which account for over $63,000 in revenue.



18. Logs
Articles in this collection (1):

1525 System logs & email logs



System logs & email logs
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/system-logs

System logs & email logs
Learn how to track events and actions made inside your account.

Last updated on 16 May, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ Where the system logs are located
Ģ Where the email logs are located

Where are the system logs?
System logs track all actions made by admin, staff members, providers, and customers. Each log displays the date and time of the action, what was done, and the IP address of the device that made the update.

To view your system logs, go to the left-side menu and click on: Logs > System Logs

Once on the "System Logs" page, there are several different filters to help you search for specific logs.

The first filter allows you to sort your logs by user type. You can select:
Ģ All - See activity by all users.
Ģ Admin - See all admin actions.
Ģ Customer - See all customer actions.
Ģ Provider - See all providers' actions.
Ģ Staff - See all staff members' actions.

The second filter allows you to sort your logs by category. The options are:
Ģ Admin Settings - View logs pertaining to the "Account" section under "Settings".
Ģ Apps & Integrations - Views logs that show changes made in the "Apps & Integrations" section under Settings > General.
Ģ Bookings - These logs show new bookings, modified bookings, and bookings added by the system.
Ģ Booking Charges - See which bookings were charged and when.
Ģ Booking Cancelation & Postpone - View logs pertaining to booking cancelations and postponements.
Ģ Booking Reminders - View logs for each instance a booking reminder has been sent out by the system.
Ģ Booking Time Logs - View logs for "provider not clocked in" and "provider not on the way" notifications.
Ģ Card Hold - These logs display when card holds have taken place or failed.
Ģ Coupons - View logs having to do with any changes in the "Coupons" section under "Marketing".
Ģ Customer - These logs display any actions having to do with customer profiles, including adding a new customer, updating their contact or billing information, deactivation, and deletion.
Ģ Daily Discounts - View logs that display changes made to the "Daily Discounts" section under "Marketing".
Ģ Drafts - View when a new booking daft or quote has been saved.
Ģ Default Spots & Settings - View logs pertaining to changes in your booking spots or booking spot settings.
Ģ Form Parameters - View logs to see changes made to your booking form parameters, such as adding or changing packages, items, and pricing parameters.
Ģ Frequencies - These logs display any new or updated frequencies used in your booking form.
Ģ Gift Cards - View logs for gift card purchases and updates to the gift card information.
Ģ Holidays - View logs that resulted from setting up holidays under Settings > Booking Spots > Holidays.
Ģ Industry & Forms - These logs will display when booking forms and industries have been added, updated, or archived.
Ģ Locations - View logs pertaining to your booking forms' "Locations" section.
Ģ Provider & Teams - See when provider accounts have been added, updated, and deactivated.
Ģ Provider Schedule - View logs for providers' schedules and availability updates.
Ģ Provider Settings - View logs for changes to providers' "Settings" section on their dashboard.
Ģ Provider's Drive - See logs that pertain to files being added to or from the provider's "My Drive" section in their dashboard.
Ģ Provider Payments - View logs for each time a provider is sent a new payment.
Ģ QuickBooks - This category displays logs for any actions pertaining to the Quickbooks integration, including connecting and syncing your data.
Ģ Rating & Reviews - View logs for customer and provider ratings and reviews.
Ģ Service Categories - These logs will display whenever a service category is added, modified, or archived.
Ģ Store Settings - View changes made to the "Store Options" sections under Settings > General.
Ģ Staff Members - See logs pertaining to staff member accounts, including adding, updating, and deleting these accounts.
Ģ Taxes - View logs for any changes made in the "Taxes" section under Settings > General.

In addition to these filters, you can also select a date or date range to view logs from that time period. There is also a search bar that you can use to search by name, email, or phone number.

If you would like to view more details about which actions were taken or what changes for a particular log, click the "eye icon" under the "Action" column.

You will be redirected to a page that displays all changes/actions taken. At the top of the page, you will see a summary that displays the booking ID, a summary of the action or update, the name of the user being affected(if applicable), the name of the user making the change, and the date and time of the update.

There is also a "View Booking" button that will bring you to the booking details page for the affecting booking.

Whatever details were updated will be displayed under the "Current" column, with the old settings displayed under the "Previous" column. There are also general booking details like the customer's name, email, phone number, and address for your general reference.

Logs will look different depending on the action or category you are looking at.

For example, this log shows that a booking was automatically generated by the system for a recurring service. Because the system is not a user, no IP address will be displayed for this sort of log.

Additionally, there are links for each booking referenced as well as the provider who was assigned to the new service.

Where are the email logs?
In addition to system logs, the "Logs" section also contains a tab for your email logs. To view your email logs, please go to: Logs > Email Logs

Here, you can filter these logs by date or date range and use the search bar to look up logs by name, email address, subject, user ID, or booking ID.

Email logs are sorted with the most recent log at the top of the list. Each log is labeled with the date and time, customer/provider/admin/staff name and email address, and the email's subject. If you have a Premium subscription, you can also view the delivery status of the email.

Click on the "Options" button under the "Actions" column to do the following:
Ģ View Booking Details - Be redirected to the booking details page for the booking that triggered this email notification.
Ģ View Email - View the exact email that was sent out by the system.
Ģ Print - Print the exact email that was sent out by the system.
Ģ Download - Download the exact email that was sent out by the system.
Ģ Re-Send - Resend the same email notification again.

How do I view the log of a specific booking?
In addition to the "System Logs" section, you can also view logs for a specific booking.

First, go to any bookings section, customer profile, or provider profile, and select "Edit" or click the pencil icon to open the booking.

Once you are inside the "Book Details" page, look for the orange "View Booking Log" button in the right-side menu.

Please note: If your form is two steps on the admin side, go to step two and then look for this option in the side menu.

A "Logs" pop-up will appear, displaying any actions taken with this booking. Click the eye icon/"View" to see more details.

There is also an "Email Logs" tab that will display any emails sent out to the customer regarding this specific booking.

You can view, print, download, or resend an email by selecting the "Options" button under the "Actions" column.

How do I view logs for a specific provider/customer?
In addition to the "System Logs" and "Email Logs" sections, you can also visit any customer or provider's dashboard to view a summary of account changes and email notifications.

Begin by going to the "Customers" or "Providers" section and clicking on the name of the user you'd like to view email logs for. Once on their dashboard, click the "Notifications" tab at the top of the page.

Next, click the "Logs" tab at the top of this section.

Below, you'll see tabs for "Email Logs" and "System Logs". Click on either tab to view the logs for this user.



19. Language and translation
Articles in this collection (6):

1526 How to add languages and translations
1527 Translate pages using the website builder
1528 Translate the "FAQs" page
1529 Translate the "services" page
1530 Translate the "apply now" page
1531 Translate blog posts and categories



How to add languages and translations
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-add-languages-and-translations

How to add languages and translations
Learn more about setting up different languages and translations for your provider and customer portals.

Last updated on 21 Feb, 2025

The purpose of this article is to help you:
Ģ Learn about translation settings
Ģ Create and link a Google translate API key
Ģ Add different languages for the provider app and customer portal
Ģ Set a default language for the provider app and customer portal
Ģ Translate "strings" in the provider app and customer portal
Ģ Make translations in the Website Builder

What are translation settings?
If your customers and/or providers speak a language besides English, you can use the Translation section to manage the language(s) used in the provider app and the customer portal.

Please note: The "multiple languages" feature is only available for Premium subscriptions. All plans allow for one language to be selected as the default.

For example, if you wanted to switch BookingKoala from English to Spanish, you would not need to upgrade your plan.
However, if you wanted to have English AND Spanish versions for the provider and customer portals, you would be prompted to upgrade when you try to add a second language.

The following languages are currently available:
Ģ Afrikaans (af)
Ģ Albanian (sq)
Ģ Amharic (am)
Ģ Arabic (ar)
Ģ Armenian (hy)
Ģ Azerbaijani (az)
Ģ Basque (eu)
Ģ Belarusian (be)
Ģ Bengali (bn)
Ģ Bosnian (bs)
Ģ Bulgarian (bg)
Ģ Catalan (ca)
Ģ Cebuano (ceb)
Ģ Chinese (Simplified) (zh)
Ģ Chinese (Traditional) (zh-TW)
Ģ Corsican (co)
Ģ Croatian (hr)
Ģ Czech (cs)
Ģ Danish (da)
Ģ Dutch (nl)
Ģ English (en)
Ģ Esperanto (eo)
Ģ Estonian (et)
Ģ Finnish (fi)
Ģ French (fr)
Ģ Frisian (fy)
Ģ Galician (gl)
Ģ Georgian (ka)
Ģ German (de)
Ģ Greek (el)
Ģ Gujarati (gu)
Ģ Haitian Creole (ht)
Ģ Hausa (ha)
Ģ Hawaiian (haw)
Ģ Hebrew (he)
Ģ Hindi (hi)
Ģ Hmong (hmn)
Ģ Hungarian (hu)
Ģ Icelandic (is)
Ģ Igbo (ig)
Ģ Indonesian (id)
Ģ Irish (ga)
Ģ Italian (it)
Ģ Japanese (ja)
Ģ Javanese (jv)
Ģ Kannada (know)
Ģ Kazakh (kk)
Ģ Khmer (km)
Ģ Kinyarwanda (rw)
Ģ Korean (ko)
Ģ Kurdish (ku)
Ģ Kyrgyz (ky)
Ģ Lao (lo)
Ģ Latin (la)
Ģ Latvian (lv)
Ģ Lithuanian (lt)
Ģ Luxembourgish (lb)
Ģ Macedonian (mk)
Ģ Malagasy (mg)
Ģ Malay (ms)
Ģ Malayalam (ml)
Ģ Maltese (mt)
Ģ Maori (mi)
Ģ Marathi (mr)
Ģ Mongolian (mn)
Ģ Myanmar (Burmese) (my)
Ģ Nepali (ne)
Ģ Norwegian (no)
Ģ Nyanja (Chichewa) (ny)
Ģ Odia (Oriya) (or)
Ģ Pashto (ps)
Ģ Persian (Farsi) (fa)
Ģ Polish (pl)
Ģ Portuguese (Portugal, Brazil) (pt)
Ģ Punjabi (pa)
Ģ Romanian (ro)
Ģ Russian (ru)
Ģ Samoan (sm)
Ģ Scots Gaelic (gd)
Ģ Serbian (sr)
Ģ Sesotho (st)
Ģ Shona (sn)
Ģ Sindhi (sd)
Ģ Sinhala (Sinhalese) (si)
Ģ Slovak (sk)
Ģ Slovenian (sl)
Ģ Somali (so)
Ģ Spanish (es)
Ģ Sundanese (su)
Ģ Swahili (sw)
Ģ Swedish (sv)
Ģ Tagalog (Filipino) (tl)
Ģ Tajik (tg)
Ģ Tamil (ta)
Ģ Tatar (tt)
Ģ Telugu (te)
Ģ Thai (th)
Ģ Turkish (tr)
Ģ Turkmen (tk)
Ģ Ukrainian (uk)
Ģ Urdu (ur)
Ģ Uyghur (ug)
Ģ Uzbek (uz)
Ģ Vietnamese (vi)
Ģ Welsh (cy)
Ģ Xhosa (xh)
Ģ Yiddish (yi)
Ģ Yoruba (yo)
Ģ Zulu (zu)

Link Your Google Translate API Key
Before you can set up different languages, you will first need to set up and link a Google translate key. This API key works by translating the text inside the BookingKoala portals into the selected language.

To begin, go to: Settings > Translation > Google Translate Key

On this page, there is a link with instructions on how to generate the Google translate key. Click the blue "Click here" text on the top right corner of the page.

You will be brought to this article by Google Cloud on How to Set Up Cloud Translation. Please read the entire article and then follow the steps.

Google Cloud Console The setup process involves the Google Cloud Console. If you haven't used it before, check out the link in the article to get more information and try it for free.

Create or Select a Project To use Cloud Translation, you must select or create a project. If you are logged into your Google account already, click the blue "Go to project selector" button.
A new page will open in yourGoogle Cloud Platform. Click on an existing project or select "Create Project" to add a new one.

Enable Billing You must also make sure billing has been enabled for your project to use Cloud Translation. To see rates for this feature, click the link in the article to see the pricing page.
To ensure billing has been enabled, click the link, "Learn how to confirm that billing is enabled for your project."

Enable the API Next, click the blue "Enable the API" box in the set-up guide.
You will be brought to a new page. First, confirm that the correct project has been selected, then click "Next".
Then, click "Enable" to finish enabling the API.

Find the API KeyOnce you have generated a Cloud Translation API key, you will need to copy it from your project console and enter it into BookingKoala.
Go to your Google Cloud dashboard and make sure the correct project is selected from the drop-down menu.
Under theAPIs box, click on "Go to APIs overview".
Next, click on "Credentials" from the left-side menu.
Your key will be listed under the API Keys section. Click the "copy" symbol next to the key's code to copy it.

Link the Google Translate Key Now that you have copied the API key, open Bookingkoala and go to: Settings > Translation > Google Translate Key Paste the key into the box and then click the blue "Add" button.
You will see a green system notification in the top-right corner letting you know the translation app has been enabled successfully.

Add New and Set Default Language
After linking your Google Translate key, you are ready to make changes to your language settings. Go to: Settings > Translation > Manage Languages This is the section where you can select the language(s) for your provider apps and customer portals.

Add a New Language To add a new language, click the drop-down menu below "Select Language(s) for provider app" or "Select languages(s) for customer portal".
Check the box next to the language(s), then click the blue "Save" button at the bottom. The new language(s) will be added to the list.

Set Default Language To set the default language, click the drop-down menu below "Choose default language for provider app" or "Choose default language for customer portal".
The menu will display the languages you have enabled. Click on the language you would like to set as the default, then click "Save" at the bottom of the page.

Set Up Translations
Once you have saved the new language(s), you will need to set up the Translations for them. To do this, go to: Settings > Translation > Translation

Search Strings for Translation To translate the provider app or customer portal, BookingKoala has pulled all the words, phrases, and sentences in these sections into an index. Each sentence, phrase, or word is referred to as a "string".
You can look up strings by checking the box next to the first letter of the word or sentence from thealphabet in the top section. If you would like to see strings that contain a specific word, type the word into the search boxto filter the results.
If you would like to translate all the strings at once, please check the box next to every option in the alphabet.

Translate Selected Strings Next, select either the "Provider app" or "Customer portal" tab, depending on which you would like to translate.
Select the new language you will translate the strings into from theSelect Languagedrop-down menu.
Click "Select All" to translate all strings from your search results, or check the box next to individual strings instead.
After making your selections, click the blue "Translate" button to translate the strings.
If you would like to save these translations into the system, click the blue "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

Edit a TranslationBecause Google Translate isn't always perfect, you also have the option to add custom translations for each string.
After locating the string using the tools above, check the box next to the string text and enter the new translation into the text box on the left.
Remember to click the blue "Save" button to update the string with the new translation.



Translate pages using the website builder
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/translate-pages-using-the-website-builder

Translate pages using the website builder
Learn how to translate pages into another language by using the website builder.

Last updated on 11 Jan, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to translate a page in the website builder into another language

Before You Begin
Before you can start translating your pages, you will need to make sure your Translation settings are properly configured, including linking a Google translate key.

For more information on how to set up multiple languages in BookingKoala, click here (https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/how-to-add-languages-and-translations).

Translate a Page in the Website Builder
Once you have enabled multiple languages, you can translate any page inside the Website Builder.

To open the website builder, go to: Settings > Design Forms & Website > Website Builder & Themes > Customize

Select the page you would like to translate from the Page drop-down menu at the top-center of the screen. Then, click the flag icon/language code just to the left of the menu and select your other language. This will open this language's version of the page.

You will now see a menu bar with a blue "Auto-Translate Site" button. A pop-up window will ask if you are sure you would like to translate this page with Google Translate. Click "Yes" to proceed.

The translation can take a few moments, so please do not close or refresh the browser window while the translation is being processed. Once the translation is complete, a green system notification will let you know that the site has been translated successfully.

Please be sure to click Save or Save & Publish at the top-right corner of the page to preserve any work you have done.



Translate the "FAQs" page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/translate-the-faqs-page

Translate the "FAQs" page
Learn how to translate your "FAQs" page into a different language.

Last updated on 11 Jan, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to translate the FAQs page into another language

Before You Begin
Before you can start translating your "FAQs" page, you will need to make sure your Translation settings are properly configured, including linking a Google translate key.

For more information on how to set up multiple languages in BookingKoala, click here.

Once you have enabled multiple languages, you can begin the process of translating your FAQs page.

Translate FAQs Categories
First, you'll want to update any FAQs categories you have created for your page. This will come in handy later on when you are translating and sorting individual FAQs into the proper category. To begin, go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > FAQ > FAQs > Categories

On the "Manage Your Categories" page, click "Options", "Edit" next to the category name you'd like to translate.

On the Edit Category page, click the blue "Change" button next to the language flag/name.

A pop-up window will appear where you can select which language to switch to. Click the radio button next to the language and click "Change".

Use the blue "Translate with Google" buttons to translate each content box to the new language.

Click the blue "Save Category" button at the bottom of the page to save the translated category.

The newly translated category will be listed under the section for your second language. If you look under the "Language" column, you will now see "2/2", meaning both languages have a published post.

You can switch between versions by clicking the flag icon next to the "Add Category" button.

Translate FAQs
Once you have translated your FAQ categories, you can translate each FAQ. Go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > FAQ

Select "Options", "Edit" next to the post you would like to translate.

On the Edit FAQ page, click the blue "Change" button next to the language flag/name.

A pop-up window will appear where you can select which language to switch to. Click the radio button next to the language and click "Change".

After changing the default language at the top, blue "Translate with Google" buttons will be inserted next to each content box. Click the button to translate each section.

Once you have finished translating the post, click the blue "Save" button.

The newly translated post will be listed under the category for your second language. If you look under the "Language" column, you will now see "2/2", meaning both languages have a published post.

You can switch between versions by clicking the flag icon next to the "Add Blog Post" button.



Translate the "services" page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/translate-the-services-page

Translate the "services" page
Learn how to translate your "Services" page into a different language.

Last updated on 11 Jan, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to translate the Services page into another language

Before You Begin
Before you can start translating your "Services" page, you will need to make sure your Translation settings are properly configured, including linking a Google translate key.

For more information on how to set up multiple languages in BookingKoala, click here.

Translate Services on the Services Page
To begin, go to:

Settings > Design Forms & Website > Services

Select "Options", "Edit" next to the service you would like to translate.

On the Edit Service page, click the blue "Change" button next to the language flag/name.

A pop-up window will appear where you can select which language to switch to. Click the radio button next to the language and click "Change".

After changing the default language at the top, blue "Translate with Google" buttons will be inserted next to each content box. Click the button to translate each section.

Once you have finished translating the service, click the blue "Save" button.

The newly translated service will be listed under the category for your second language. If you look under the "Language" column, you will now see "2/2", meaning both languages have a published service.

You can switch between versions by clicking the flag icon next to the "Add Service" button.



Translate the "apply now" page
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/translate-the-apply-now-page

Translate the "apply now" page
Learn how to translate your "Apply Now" page into a different language.

Last updated on 11 Jan, 2022

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to translate the Services page into another language

Before You Begin
Before you can start translating your "Apply Now" page, you will need to make sure your Translation settings are properly configured, including linking a Google translate key.
For more information on how to set up multiple languages in BookingKoala, click here.

Translate Job Openings on the Apply Now Page
To begin, go to:
Settings > Design Forms & Website > Apply Now

Select "Options", "Edit" next to the job opening you would like to translate.

On the Edit Service page, click the blue "Change" button next to the language flag/name.

A pop-up window will appear where you can select which language to switch to. Click the radio button next to the language and click "Change".

After changing the default language at the top, blue "Translate with Google" buttons will be inserted next to each content box. Click the button to translate each section.

Once you have finished translating the content, click the blue "Save" button.

The newly translated job opening will be listed under the category for your second language. If you look under the "Language" column, you will now see "2/2", meaning both languages have a published job opening.

You can switch between versions by clicking the flag icon next to the "Add Service" button.



Translate blog posts and categories
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/translate-blog-posts-and-categories

Translate blog posts and categories
Learn how to translate your blog posts and categories into another language.

Last updated on 31 Jul, 2023

The purpose of this article is to help you learn:
Ģ How to translate a page in the website builder into another language

Before You Begin
Before you can start translating your blog, you will need to make sure your Google Translationintegration is properly configured.
Click here for more information on how to set up multiple languages in BookingKoala.

Translating Blog Posts
Once you have enabled multiple languages, you can also translate your blog posts. To edit a blog post, go to: Marketing > Blog

Select "Options", "Edit" next to the post you would like to translate.

On the Edit blog post page, click the blue "Change" button next to the language flag/name.

A pop-up window will appear where you can select which language to switch to. Click the radio button next to the language and click "Change".

After changing the default language at the top, blue "Translate with Google" buttons will be inserted next to each content box. Click the button to translate each section.

Once you have finished translating the post, click the blue "Save" button to publish the new version, or the orange "Draft" button to save for later.

The newly translated post will be listed under the category for your second language. If you look under the "Language" column, you will now see "2/2", meaning both languages have a published post.

You can switch between versions by clicking the flag icon next to the "Add Blog Post" button.

Translating Blog Categories
In addition to the blog posts, you can also edit your blog's categories. To edit your categories, go to: Marketing > Blog > Blog > Categories

On the "Manage Your Categories" page, click "Options", "Edit" next to the category name you'd like to translate.

On the Edit Category page, click the blue "Change" button next to the language flag/name.

A pop-up window will appear where you can select which language to switch to. Click the radio button next to the language and click "Change".

Use the blue "Translate with Google" buttons to translate each content box to the new language.

Click the blue "Save Category" button at the bottom of the page to save the translated category.

The newly translated category will be listed under the section for your second language. If you look under the "Language" column, you will now see "2/2", meaning both languages have a published post.

You can switch between versions by clicking the flag icon next to the "Add Category" button.



20. Mobile apps
Articles in this collection (3):

1532 Download the apps
1533 Get more clients using our marketplace
1534 Phone settings for GPS tracking



Download the apps
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/download-the-apps

Download the apps
Learn which BookingKoala apps have been released and where you can download them.

Last updated on 14 Mar, 2022

Currently, there is one BookingKoala app available for use: BookingKoala for Providers . We are currently working on developing apps for customers and admin as well. Currently, admin and customers can access their accounts on a mobile device by using their web browser.

BookingKoala for Providers
Click here to download the app from Google Play for Android devices.

Click here to download the app from the App Store for Apple devices.

BookingKoala for Customers
Coming soon!

BookingKoala for Administrators
Coming soon!



Get more clients using our marketplace
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/get-more-clients-using-our-marketplace

Get more clients using our marketplace
Struggling to get clients? Learn how we can help without breaking the bank.

Last updated on 24 Mar, 2022

PLEASE NOTE: Currently the Marketplace app development is on pause so that we can work on improving the software with more features and functionality that our customers have been asking for. Once we have determined that we are ready to move back into finalizing the app, we will let you all know.

The BookingKoala Marketplace
Our Marketplace is being built to help you get more jobs without breaking the bank.

You shouldn't have to worry about gaining clients, especially if you are starting or have no marketing experience. So, let us do that for you!

We take a small 10% commission for any job you complete. This will make acquiring jobs more affordable, and you only pay once the job has been completed.

This creates the perfect opportunity to open a business and get clients right away. Once ready, we will be actively searching for business from all sorts of industries and locations to fulfill the needs of our Marketplace shoppers.

Requirements:
To join our marketplace, we will have several requirements.

1535 You must be a Growing BookingKoala user (more on that later).
1536 You must complete 5 bookings on our platform before being listed as a business under our marketplace.
1537 You must receive 2 reviews inside the platform before being listed.
1538 You must offer all of our leads a 10% to 25% discount on your services (it is up to you how much you'd like to offer). This is a first-time (one-time) client discount and it will only be applied towards the first service. The system will handle this automatically and you will be able to track everything from your dashboard.

How will I get clients?
We will drive the traffic to you. When a user signs up for our mailing list, we will send them an email with our top businesses in their location and desired industry.

For example, if a holiday is coming up, we will reach out to you to offer special deals to potential buyers when we promote your business. Sometimes, we may even send out emails that focus on your company exclusively.

Whenever the lead is ready to book, they will do so through your booking form, giving them access to all of the BookingKOala features. They'll be able to tip your providers, rate the service, book new services, and reschedule on the go, plus all of the other features we are always adding.

How can I get placed higher on the list?
Each new business that signs up for the marketplace will be automatically placed at the bottom of the list. Based on several different factors, we may move you up the list as time goes by.

These factors include:

Ģ Your average ratings
Ģ The types of promotions and pricing you offer
Ģ Having a quality, user-friendly experience on your website

We will be seeking new businesses to join our list, so securing your spot early will greatly benefit your business before the lists become too crowded. We will announce once we are accepting new businesses for the Marketplace.

Why must I be a "Growing" subscriber to participate?
All of our shoppers will be promised a great service. The goal of our platform is to help get customers what they want. Too many businesses rely on outdated business models without keeping up with trends that focus on the customer's experience.

Today, services like Uber are ruling the industry by offering businesses convenience and an excellent experience. Meanwhile, smaller businesses may struggle to meet the same requirements for many different reasons.

We hope that BookingKoala can allow these smaller businesses to complete with multi-million dollar services and even the playing field. Through our features, businesses can offer discounts to customers while customers will rate their experience, helping us determine which businesses are doing well.

Why must I have 5 completed bookings and 2 reviews to participate?
We require a minimum of 5 completed bookings and 2 reviews to particular in the Marketplace program. This is to validate that you are a real user. This also helps us determine what type of service you offer.

We closely monitor reviews to ensure the best businesses are showcased to our potential leads. If you'd completed jobs in the past somewhere else, you can easily replicate them on our platform. Even if you've completed hundreds of jobs, we would be happy to assist in getting them scheduled into your platform, so you can become listed within just a few hours.

Why do I have to offer a 10-25% discount for the first service?
There are three main reasons why we would offer this coupon code.

1539 Having a discount code will allow you to track how many clients we get your business.
1540 So we can track your commissions. However, if a customer books with you without ever entering the coupon code, you will take home 100% of the revenue and we will get no commission.
1541 Leads enjoy discounts and it increases conversion into recurring customers.

How do I track how many clients the marketplace gets me?
Since most of the users will use the coupon code, you can run a report from the Reports section of your dashboard. Enter the code into the "Coupon" filter towards the top of the page.

If a customer calls your office to book and you apply the coupon on the customer's behalf, it will still be tracked here.

What if you don't advertise my industry or location yet?
If you are the first to be interested in an area we don't service yet, this will be a great opportunity to sign up and get ahead of the pack! Once we have three interested businesses in your industry and location, you will be added to that region and we will begin to advertise for you. If shoppers like what you have to offer, they can book right then and there.

As of right now, signs ups are currently closed until we launch the marketplace program.

How do I get started?
To get started, you must first sign up for a BookingKoala account, on the Growing plan or higher.

Once the marketplace platform is launched, you'll be able to request to join the marketplace right from within your account.

After your request is received, we will reach out and contact you with more information on how to get started.



Phone settings for GPS tracking
URL: https://help.bookingkoala.com/help/phone-settings-for-gps-tracking

Phone settings for GPS tracking
Learn which phone settings allow the GPS clock in/out function to track more accurately.

Features Described:
Ģ GPS clock-in/clock-out feature: Available for Growing or Premium plan subscribers. Used to log booking times accurately via the BookingKoala for Providers app.

Important Notes / Limitations:
Ģ Several phone settings may impact the accuracy of booking time logs.
Ģ The recommendations below help improve location and tracking accuracy for the BookingKoala for Providers app.

Optimizing GPS Tracking - iPhone Settings
1. Location Settings (iPhone)
To ensure that the GPS is always being accessed by the BookingKoala for Providers app, the phone's location services should be set to "Always". Navigation Path: Settings > Privacy > Location Services Steps:
1542 Open your phone and go to Settings > Privacy > Location Services.
1543 Make sure the toggle next to "Location Services" is set to "On"/green.
1544 Scroll down the list of apps in this section and click on "BookingKoala for Providers".
1545 Beneath "Allow Location Access", make sure the option "Always" has a green checkmark next to it. If it does not, click "Always" to update the app's settings.

2. Background App Refresh (iPhone)
In order for iPhones to consistently track your location, it is recommended to have "background app refresh" turned on and enabled for the BookingKoala for Providers app. Navigation Path: Settings > General Steps:
1546 Begin by opening your phone and going to Settings > General.
1547 Tap "Background App Refresh" and make sure it is set to "On" at the top of the section.
1548 Scroll down until you locate the "BookingKoala for Providers" app and check that the toggle button is "On"/green.
1549 If the toggle is grey, tap it once to switch it to "On"/green.

3. Data Saver Mode (iPhone)
If your phone has "Low Data Mode" enabled, you may face issues with apps that require background data usage to keep GPS tracking active. Disabling "Low Data Mode" can help improve tracking accuracy. Navigation Path: Settings > Cellular Data > Cellular Data Options Steps:
1550 Open your phone and go to Settings > Cellular Data > Cellular Data Options.
1551 Locate the "Low Data Mode" section and make sure it is toggled to "Off"/grey.
1552 If the toggle button is "On"/green, tap it once to turn it to the off position.

Optimizing GPS Tracking - Android Settings
1. Location Settings (Android)
Location services must be set to "Always" for the BookingKoala for Providers app. Navigation Path: Settings > Location Steps:
1553 Open your phone and go to Settings > Location.
1554 Make sure that "Location" is toggled to "On" at the top of the screen.
1555 Click on "App Permissions".
1556 Click on the "BookingKoala for Providers" app in the list below.
1557 Beneath "Location access for this app", make sure "Allow all the time" has been selected. If not, click "Allow all the time" to update the app's settings.

2. Improve Location Accuracy (Android)
Additional location options can affect the accuracy of your phone's GPS. Navigation Path: Settings > Location Steps:
1558 Start by going to Settings > Location.
1559 Click on "Improve Accuracy".
1560 Make sure both "Wi-Fi scanning" and "Bluetooth scanning" are both set to "On"/blue.
1561 If not, click the grey toggle button to turn it to "On"/blue for each option.

3. Allow Background Data (Android)
Background data usage must be enabled for continuous tracking and logging. Navigation Path 1: Settings > Network and Internet > Data Usage > App Data Usage Steps 1:
1562 Start by going to Settings > Network and Internet > Data Usage > App Data Usage.
1563 Scroll down to view a list of your apps and tap on the "BookingKoala for Providers" app.
1564 Check the bottom of this section and make sure "Background data" is toggled to "On"/blue.
1565 If not, click the grey toggle button to turn it to "On"/blue.

Navigation Path 2 (Some Androids): Settings > Network and Internet > Mobile Network > Data Usage > App Data Usage Steps 2:
1566 Open your phone and go to Settings > Network and Internet > Mobile Network > Data Usage > App Data Usage.
1567 Scroll down to view a list of your apps and tap on the "BookingKoala for Providers" app.
1568 Check the bottom of this section and make sure "Background data" is toggled to "On"/blue.
1569 If not, click the grey toggle button to turn it to "On"/blue.

Navigation Path 3 (Older Androids): Settings > Connections > Data Usage Steps 3:
1570 Open your phone and go to Settings > Connections > Data Usage.
1571 Tap on "Mobile data usage".
1572 Scroll down until you locate the "BookingKoala for Provider's App" and tap on it.
1573 Make sure the toggle button is set to "On"/blue for "Allow background data usage" and "Allow app while data saver is on".
1574 If one or both of the buttons are grey, tap the button once to switch it to "On"/blue.

4. Battery Usage (Android)
Some Android devices allow you to control background data for each individual app. Navigation Path: Settings > Apps > BookingKoala for Providers Steps:
1575 Open your phone and go to Settings > Apps > BookingKoala for Providers.
1576 Tap on "Battery".
1577 Below "Manage Battery Use" make sure "Allow background activity" is toggled to "On"/blue.
1578 If the toggle button is grey, tap it once to switch it to "On"/blue.
1579 Next, tap on "Optimize battery usage".
1580 Locate the "BookingKoala for Providers" app and make sure that the toggle button is set to "Off"/white.
1581 If the toggle is "On"/blue, tap it once to turn "Off" battery optimization.

5. Sleeping App Settings (Android)
To ensure that the BookingKoala for Providers app is consistently using your phone GPS, the app should be listed under the "Never Sleeping Apps" section. Navigation Path 1: Settings > Battery & Device Care > Battery > Background Usage Limits Steps 1:
1582 To begin, open your phone and go to Settings > Battery & Device Care > Battery > Background Usage Limits.
1583 Click on the "Never Sleeping Apps" section. If BookingKoala for Providers has already been added to this list, you are all set!
1584 If not, click the + sign at the top of the screen, select the BookingKoala for Providers app, and then click "Add".

Navigation Path 2 (Some Android devices): Settings > Device Care > Battery > App Power Management Steps 2:
1585 Begin by going to Settings > Device Care > Battery > App Power Management.
1586 Click on the "Apps that won't be put to sleep" section. If BookingKoala for Providers has already been added to this list, you are all set!
1587 If not, click the + sign at the top of the screen, select the BookingKoala for Providers app, and then click "Add".



